      Title: Almond Mushroom Pate
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      2 tb Margarine
      1 sm Onion, Chopped
           Clove Garlic, Minced
  1 1/2 c  Sliced Mushrooms
    1/2 ts Tarragon
      1 c  Blanched Whole Almonds
      1 tb Lemon Juice
      2 ts Soy Sauce
      1 ds White Pepper
      2 tb Cream Cheese, Optional *
  * or Kefir cheese, or Neufchatel cheese GARNISH: Slivered or finely chopped
  almonds, fresh parsley sprigs, pimiento strips, or sweet red pepper strips,
  optional.
  ~------------------------------------------------------------------------
  In a large skillet, melt margarine. Add onion, garlic, and mushrooms. Saute
  until tender but not browned. Add tarragon, stir until it is softened. Pour
  mixture into a bowl of food processor. Add remaining ingredients. Process
  until mixture is smooth. Add cheese if you prefer a more spreadable
  consistency. Spoon into a serving bowl. Top with garnish of your choice.
  Makes 1 1/2 cups. People who do not like ordinary pate seem to love this
  one. Vary the herbs and substitute the vegetables as you wish. Serve with
  water crackers, thick slices of crusty French bread, thin slices of whole
  wheat bread, or unsalted whole wheat crackers. May be frozen. VARIATIONS: -
  Substitute other vegetables for the mushrooms (maybe broccoli.) -
  Substitute 1/2 t fennel for the tarragon and 1 c whole pecans for the
  almonds - vary the flavor by using other seasonings such as basil, oregano,
  dillweed, curry powder, or nutmeg.
      Title: Almond Puff
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
    1/2 c  Butter (or margarine),
           -softened
      1 c  Gold Medal flour
      2 tb Water
    1/2 c  Butter (or margarine)
      1 c  Water
      1 ts Almond extract
      1 c  Gold Medal flour
      3    Eggs
  Chopped nuts Confectioners' Sugar Glaze (below)
  Heat oven to 350. Cut 1/2 C. butter into 1 C. flour. Sprinkle 2 tbsp. water
  over mixture; mix with fork. Round into ball; divide in half. On ungreased
  baking sheet, pat each half into a strip, 12 by 3 inches. Strips should be
  about 3 inches apart.
  In medium saucepan, heat 1/2 C. butter & 1 C. water to rolling boil. Remove
  from heat & quickly stir in almond extract & 1 C. flour. Stir vigorously
  over low heat until mixture forms a ball, about 1 minute. Remove from heat.
  Beat in eggs, all at one time, until smooth. Divide in half; spread each
  half evenly over strips, covering completely.   Bake about 60 minutes or
  until topping is crisp & brown. Cool. Frost with Confectioners' Sugar Glaze
  & sprinkle generously with nuts.  10 to 12 servings
  CONFECTIONERS' SUGAR GLAZE
  Mix 1 1/2 C. confectioners' sugar, 2 tbsp. butter,(softened), 1 to 1 1/2
  tsp. almond extract or 1 1/2 tsp. Vanilla & 1 to 2 tbsp. warm water until
  smooth.
  **** And that is it.. ****       Enjoy it!!    V.O.
      Title: Almond Stuffed Dates with Bacon
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      1 pk (4-oz) blanched whole
           -almonds
      1 lb Pitted dates
  1 1/2 lb Lean thinly sliced bacon cut
           -into thirds
  Put an almond in each date. Wrap a piece of bacon around each stuffed date
  and secure with a toothpick. Line cookie sheet with aluminum foil. Place
  dates on foil and bake in preheated 400 degree oven for 12-15 minutes or
  until bacon is crisp. Remove to rack or paper towel; drain. Serve warm.
      Title: Anchovy Olive Dip
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  6
      1 c  Dairy sour cream
    1/2 c  Finely chopped stuffed green
           -olives
  1 1/2 tb Anchovy paste
    1/2 ts Grated onion
  Combine ingredients; mix well.  Chill
  Randy Rigg
      Title: Anchoyade
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
           Jim Vorheis
      4 oz Flat anchovy fillets
      2 md Cloves garlic, finely
           -chopped
      1 ts Tomato paste
      1 tb To 1 1/2 tb olive oil
      2 ts Lemon juice (or red wine
           -vinegar)
           Freshly ground black pepper
      8    To 10 slices French bread,
           -1/2-inch thick, cut into
           Strips
      1 ts Finely chopped fresh parsley
  Soak anchovies 10 minutes in cold water and pat dry with paper towels.
  Place in a large mortar or heavy bowl with the garlic and tomato paste.
  Pound with a pestle, wooden masher or spoon into a very smooth puree, or
  use food processor with steel blade. Dribble the oil in, a few drops at a
  time, stirring constantly until thick and smooth, like mayonnaise. Stir in
  lemon juice and a few grounds of black pepper. Preheat oven to 500 F. Brown
  bread lightly on one side.  While bread is warm, spread untoasted side with
  anchovy mixture, pressing it into bread with back of fork or spoon. Bake
  for 10 minutes.  Sprinkle with parsley and serve at once.
  Note: For a first course, use whole slices of French bread spread with
  anchovy mixture.
  Colorado Cache Cookbook (1978) From the collection of Jim Vorheis
      Title: Angel of Death Cheese Spread
 Categories: Cheese, Spreads, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      1 lb Gorganzola or Bleu Cheese
      1 lb Ricotta cheese
      2    Cloves chopped garlic
      1 c  Chopped walnuts
      4    Fresh sage leaves
  salt to taste cheese cloth
  Chop garlic.  Add to 1/4 C of water in a small saucepan. Reduce to 2
  tablespoons.
  Beat cheeses together.  Add garlic mixture and salt, if desired.
  In a double layer of cheesecloth - put sage leaves in a pattern in the
  center.  Sprinkle nuts on top.  Put cheese mixture on top of nuts.  Gather
  cheesecloth and form into a ball.  Tie together.
  Put the cheeseball in a strainer over a dish and let sit in the fridge
  overnight to drain.
  Unwrap and serve!
      Title: Angels on Horseback
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
   Servings:  1
           Bacon slices
           Oysters, fresh, raw
           Salt and pepper
           Paprika
           Toothpicks
  Wrap thin slices of bacon around freshly shucked oysters, sprinkled with
  salt, pepper and paprika, and secure them with wooden picks. Put them on a
  rack in a shallow baking pan and brown them slowly in a moderate oven
  (350F), turning once, until the bacon is crisp. Serve hot, on parsley
  sprigs or watercress. Angels on horseback may also be browned under the
  broiler.  They should be turned to crisp the bacon on all sides. Source:
  Gourmet Cookbook, Volume 1
      Title: Antipasto
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings: 10
      2    Green Peppers
      1    Medium Onion
      2    Stalks Of Celery
      3    Carrots
      1    Garlic Clove
    1/2 lb Sliced Mushrooms
      1    Flowerets Of Med Cauliflower
      2 tb Oil
      1 c  Tuna Fish Drained
      1    Juice Of One Lemon
      1 ts Granulated Sugar
     13 oz Bottle Of Catsup
  Finely chop peppers, onion, celery, carrots, garlic, mushrooms and
  cauliflower; cook in hot oil for 5 minutes, mix well.  Cook 5 minutes. Pour
  into sterilzed jars, cool and refrigerate.  When serving, place antipasto
  in a pretty dish, surround with crackers.
      Title: Appetizer Cheese Ball
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese, Eggs
   Servings: 12
      8 oz Cream Cheese, Room Temp.
      4 oz Blue Cheese, Crumbled
      4 oz Cheddar Cheese, Shredded
      2 ts Mustard, Dijon Style
      1 ts Worcestershire Sauce
    1/8 ts Garlic Powder
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Pecans, Finely Chopped
    2/3 c  Currants
    3/4 c  Parsley, Chopped
-----------------------------DIPPERS----------------------------------
           Assorted Crackers
           Apple Wedges
  Place the cream cheese, blue cheese, cheddar cheese, mustard,
  Worcestershire, garlic powder and salt in a mixer bowl and beat at low
  speed just until well mixed.  Stir in the pecans and currants.  Taste and
  adjust seasoning.  Refrigerate the cheese mixture for 30 minutes or until
  slightly firm, then shape into a ball.  Roll in the chopped parsley to coat
  well.  Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate until ready to serve. Let
  stand at room temperature for about 30 minutes before serving.  Place on a
  platter surrounded with crackers and apple wedges.
      Title: Apple Fritters
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings: 12
      1    Egg
    1/3 c  Milk
      1 c  Flour, all purpose
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
      3 tb Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Apples, diced
  Beat egg and add milk.  Sift flour, measure and sift again with baking
  powder, sugar and salt.  Add to beaten egg and milk.  Stir in apples. Drop
  by teaspoonfuls in shortening and fry until golden brown.  Drain on paper
  towels.  Serve with Kayro light corn syrup or sprinle with powdered sugar.
      Title: Artichoke Squares #1
 Categories: Appetizers, Eggs, Cheese
   Servings: 24
     12 oz Canned Artichokes
      1    Small Onion, Minced
      4    Large Eggs
      8 oz Mozzarella Cheese
    1/4 c  Dried Bread Crumbs
      2 tb Chopped Parsley
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
           Non-Toxic Flowers To Garnish
  Drain liquid from 1 jar of artichokes into 1-puart saucepan. Drain liquid
  from second jar of artichokes and discard. Finely chop all artichokes; set
  aside. Grease 12 inch by 8 inch baking dish. In liquid in saucepan, over
  medium heat, cook minced onion until tender. In medium bowl, with fork,
  beat eggs until blended. Stir in cooked onion and chopped artichokes,
  mozzarella cheese, bread crumbs, parsley, salt and pepper. Spread mixture
  evenly in baking dish. If not baking right away, cover and refrigerate.
  ABOUT 1 HOUR BEFORE SERVING; Preheat oven to 325øF.  Bake artichoke mixture
  30 to 35 minutes until set and lightly browned. Cool 15 minutes in dish on
  wire rack. With knife, cut lengthwise into 4 strips then cut each strip
  crosswise into 6 pieces. Arrange appetizer on platter; garnish and serve.
  MAKES 24 HORS D'OEUVRES.
      Title: Artichoke Dip #1
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips, Spreads, Cheese
   Servings:  4
      1 c  Parmesan Cheese
      1 c  Mayonnaise
  1 1/2 c  Artichoke Hearts
           Garlic Powder
  Combine equal amounts Parmesan cheese and mayonnaise.  Add garlic powder.
  Add artichoke hearts and combine with cheese mixture.  May be served cold
  or heated 10 to 20 minutes in 350øF oven or until cheese is melted (do not
  heat in microwave).  Serve with chips or as a spread on french bread. Typed
  by Syd Bigger.
      Title: Artichoke Spinach Dip
 Categories: Dips, Syd's book
   Servings:  1
  1 1/2 oz Jar Artichokes Drained
     10 oz Bag Spinach
    3/4 c  Mayonnaise
      3 tb Lemon Juice
    1/2 ts Grated Lemon Rind
      1    Tabasco To Taste
      1    Salt And Pepper To Taste
  Chop artichoke hearts in food processor fitted with steel blade.  Set
  aside.  Wash spinach well.  Blanch in boiling water; drain; squeeze dry and
  chop in food processor.  Add chopped artichoke hearts and remaining
  ingredients and process just until blended.  Prepare a day in advance.
  Serve with vegetable sticks.  Yield 2 1/2 cups.  From: Syd's Cookbook.
      Title: Artichoke Bottoms with Bay Scallops
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  8
    3/4 lb Scallops, bay, washed
      1 c  Bread crumbs, fresh, fine
      3 tb Parsley, fresh, minced
    1/2 ts Tarragon, dried
    1/4 c  Celery, minced
      2    Garlic, cloves, minced
     28 oz Artichoke bottoms, drained
           (2-14 oz cans)
           Oil, canola, for brushing
           On grill rack
  Mix scallops, bread crumbs, parsley, tarragon, celery and garlic in a bowl.
  Gently mound filling into artichoke bottoms.
  Prepare grill.  When coals are hot, set artichokes on grill rack, brushed
  with oil, about 4 to 6 inches from heat source.  Cover grill.  Cook stuffed
  artichokes for about 3 minutes or until scallops are opaque. Using a
  long-handled spatula, transfer artichoke bottoms to serving dish. Serve
  hot.
      Title: Artichoke Chili Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings:  6
      1 cn (14-oz) artichoke hearts
           -drained and chopped
      1 c  Grated parmesan cheese
      1 cn (4-oz) green chili peppers
           -chopped
      1 c  Mayonnaise
  Tortilla chips for dipping
  In a small mixing bowl combine artichokes, cheese, peppers and mayonnaise.
  Transfer mixture to an 8 inch round baking dish. Bake, uncovered, in a 350
  degree oven for 20 minutes. Serve warm with tortilla chips.
      Title: Artichoke Dip #2
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings:  6
     10 oz Frozen artichoke hearts
      1 c  Sour cream
      1 c  Mayonnaise
    1/2 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 375F. Defrost artichoke hearts and drain. Mix together sour
  cream, mayonnaise and Parmesan cheese. Add artichoke hearts and mix
  thoroughly. Turn into a baking dish and bake until hot and bubbly.
  Makes 3 Cups
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
      Title: Artichoke Squares #2
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  1
      1 lg Onion
      1    Garlic clove, minced
      4    Eggs (beaten)
    1/4 c  Bread crumbs
      2    Jars of artichoke hearts,
           Chopped (not liquid)
  1 1/2 ts Oregano
           Salt, pepper to taste
        ds Tabasco
      2 c  Shredded cheddar cheese
  Saute the onion and garlic in marinade from 1 jar of artichoke hearts. Beat
  the eggs and add bread crumbs, artichoke hearts (chopped), oregano, salt
  and pepper, Tabasco, onion and garlic mix, shredded cheddar cheese. Pour
  into a 9 x 13 inch or 7 x 11 inch pan; cook for 30 minutes at 325 degrees.
      Title: Asian Guacamole
 Categories: Dips, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      1 tb Black or white sesame seed
      1 lg Firm-ripe avacado
      1 tb Shredded pickled ginger
      3 tb Seasoned rice vinegar
           -OR
      3 tb Cider vinegar,mixed with
      1 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Wasabi powder or
           -prepared horseradish
------------------------POTSTICKER CRISPS-----------------------------
     12    Round potsticker skins
  Place sesame seed in a 7-8" frying pan over medium-high heat. Shake pan
  often until seed begins to pop, 3-4 minutes. Pour from pan; set aside to
  cool.
  Peel and pit avacado; dice into a bowl. Add 1/2 teaspoon sesame seed,
  ginger, vinegar, and wasabi; mix gently. Transfer to a serving bowl and
  sprinkle with remaining seed. Serve with potsticker crisps.
  Per serving: 81 calories; 1.1 grams protein; 7.2 grams fat; (1.1 grams
  saturated fat); 4.8 grams carbohydrates; 27 milligrams sodium; 0 milligrams
  cholesterol.
  *** POTSTICKER CRISPS ***
  One at a time, dip potsticker skins in water; shake off excess. Lay in a
  single layer on a greased 12x15" baking sheet.
  Bake in a 450'F. oven until browned and crisp, 4-8 minutes, depending on
  thickness. Cool on racks. If made ahead, package airtight and store at room
  temperature up to 2 days.
  Per crisp: 39 calories; 1.8 grams protein; 0.1 grams fat; (0 grams
  saturated fat); 7.8 grams carbohydrates; 3.9 milligrams sodium; 0
  milligrams cholesterol.
      Title: Asparagus and Crabmeat Salad
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  4
      1 c  Mayonnaise
      1 tb Lemon juice - fresh
  1 1/2 ts Tomato paste
  1 1/2 ts Shallot - minced
    1/2 ts Dijon mustard
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 lb Asparagus - trimmed
      8 oz Crabmeat - cooked
      4 lg Boston lettuce leaves - or
           -butter lettuce leaves
  Calories     per serving:             Number of Servings:   4 Fat grams per
  serving:              Approx. Cook Time: Cholesterol per serving: Marks:
  *DIRECTIONS*
  Whisk mayonnaise, lemon juice, tomato paste, shallot, Dijon mustard and
  pepper in medium bowl. Cover and refrigerate until ready to use. (Can be
  prepared 3 days ahead.) Cook asparagus in large pot of boiling salted water
  until crisp-tender, about 4 minutes. Transfer to bowl of ice water and
  cool.  Drain and pat dry.  mix crabmeat into mayonnaise.  Season to taste
  with salt.  Arrange 1 lettuce leaf on each plate.  Top with asparagus.
  Spoon crabmeat mayonnaise over and serve.
  Bon Appetit, April, 1991.
      Title: Asparagus Roll Ups
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings: 12
      1    Can Asparagus
      1    Loaf Bread *
      4 oz Bleu Cheese
      1 ts Worcestershire Sauce
      1    Beaten Egg
      8 oz Cream Cheese
           Garlic Powder To Taste
           Pepper To Taste
  * Remove crusts and flatten each slice.
  Mix bleu cheese, worcestershire sauce, beaten egg, cream cheese and
  seasonings.  Spread on bread - place an asparagus spear on top and roll up.
  Roll in melted butter and cut in thirds. Place on cookie sheet and bake for
  about 20 min.-- at 350 degrees.
      Title: Avocado and Raisin Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips, Syd's book
   Servings:  4
      2    Avocados, Peeled & Chopped
    1/2 c  Raisins
    1/2 c  Vegetable Oil
    1/4 c  Lime Juice
      1 tb Sugar
      1 tb Salt
    1/4 tb Freshly Ground Pepper
  Place all ingredients in blender container.  Cover and blend on high speed
  until smooth, about 45 seconds.  Serve with raw vegetables, assorted
  crackers or fried tortillas. Makes 1-2/3 cups of dip.  From: Syd's
  Cookbook.
      Title: Avocado-Tofu-Egg Dip
 Categories: Dips, Eggs, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
     10    Min to prepare
           Yield 1 1/2 c
      3 tb Cider vinegar
      3 tb Cold water
      1    Cake (1/4 lb) tofu
      1 md (4" long) ripe avocado
      2    Hard cooked eggs
    1/2 ts Dijon mustard
    1/2 ts Prepared horseradish
    1/2 c  Very finely minced red onion
  From "The Enchanted Broccoli Forest" By Molle Katzen.
  salt to taste pepper to taste
  Place vinegar, water, tofu and avocado in the jar of a blender - or a food
  processor fitted with the steel blade attachment.  Puree until smooth.
  Transfer to a bowl.
  Coarsely grate or finely chop the hard-cooked eggs.  Stir these, plus all
  remaining ingredients into the puree.  Cover tightly and chill.
  Posted by Theresa Merkling.
      Title: Aztec Pyramid Avocado Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips, Cheese, Syd's book
   Servings:  8
      3    Avocado *
      1 c  Cream Cheese, Softened
      2 c  Sour Cream
  1 1/3 oz Taco Seasoning Mix, 1 Pkg
      2 c  Cheddar, Sharp, Shredded
      3 c  Fresh Tomatoes, Fine Chopped
      5    Green Onions, Sliced,Use All
    1/2 c  Black Olives, Sliced
      2 tb Lemon Juice
  LAYER 1: (Bottom)  Mash the avocados and blend in the lemon juice, mixing
  well, and spread evenly in a bowl or on a serving plate to the edges of the
  dish. LAYER 2: Beat the cream cheese until smooth and creamy. Blend in the
  sour cream, mixing well, and blend in the taco seasoning, blending well.
  Spread over the avocado layer. LAYER 3: Sprinkle the cheddar cheese over
  the cream cheese mixture. LAYER 4: Distribute the tomatoes over the cheddar
  cheese layer. LAYER 5: Spread the green onions over the tomato layer. LAYER
  6:  Top with the black olives. Serve at room temperature. Makes about 10
  1/2 cups of dip. SUGGESTED DIPPERS: Tortilla Chips, Bell peppers, Lobster,
  Jicama.  From: Syd's Cookbook.
      Title: Baba Ghannouj
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
           Med Eggplant *
    1/4 c  Tahini
      1 tb Lemon Juice
           Clove Garlic
    1/4 ts Black Pepper
      1 ds Ground Cumin
      2 tb Sesame Seeds
      2 tb Finely Chopped Fresh Parsley
  * Peeled and cut into 1/2" cubes (about 3 cups)
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Steam eggplant until tender, about 8 minutes.  Place cooked eggplant in
  food processor. Add tahini (sesame paste),lemon juice, and garlic.  Puree.
  Stir in remaining ingredients; spoon into serving bowl. Garnish with
  parsley sprig. Serve warm or chill. Makes 2 cups. HINTS: - Smaller
  eggplants have thinner peels and a sweeter flavor. Select those with firm
  skin free of soft spots.  Store sesame seeds in cool, dark place in
  refrigerator.
      Title: Baba Ghannuj (Eggplant Appetizer)
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  1
      1    Large eggplant
      1    Clove garlic; crushed
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Tahini; Sesame Seed Paste
      2 tb Water
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
           Lemon wedges
           Parsley
           Olive oil
  Set oven to 375F. Wash eggplant and remove stem. Pierce with a fork 4-6
  times. Place in baking dish. Bake for 45 minutes or until tender. Remove
  from oven and run under cold water. Peel and mash; set aside. In serving
  bowl combine garlic, salt, and Tahini. Gradually add water and lemon juice,
  beating well. Fold in mashed eggplant. Garnish with lemon wedges, finely
  chopped parsley and a sprinkle of olive oil. Scoop up eggplant with pieces
  of Pita Bread to eat or serve as a side dish with any meal. Shared by Rita
  Taule, Prodigy ID# BTVC62A.
      Title: Baby Pear Tomatoes and Brie
 Categories: Cheese, Appetizers
   Servings:  4
  4 1/2 oz Round Brie cheese
           Coarsely cracked black
           -pepper
      7 oz Baby pear tomatoes (red and
           -yellow)
      1    To 2 Tbsp. snipped fresh
           -herbs (choose from basil,
           -oregano, marjoram,
  Fresh herb sprigs savory, dill, or a combination of them Sliced French
  Bread
  Generously line a 9 inch microwave-safe pie plate or quiche dish with fresh
  herb sprigs.  Place cheese over herbs in dish.  Using the tip of a paring
  knife, score top of the cheese in a diamond pattern.  Generously top cheese
  with black pepper.  Micro-cook, uncovered, on 100% power (high) 1-1/2 to 2
  minutes or till cheese just starts to melt.  Arrange tomatoes around
  cheese.  Sprinkle cheese and tomatoes with snipped herbs. Cook on high 1
  minutes more or till tomatoes are warm.  Cut cheese into wedges; serve with
  tomatoes and bread.  Makes 4 to 6 appetizer servings.
  From: 1990 Best-Recipes Yearbook, Better Homes and Gardens Shared By: Pat
  Stockett
      Title: Baby Shrimp and Tarragon Mustard
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips, Seafood, Syd's book
   Servings:  4
      2 ts Dijon Mustard
      1 ts Lemon Juice
  1 1/2 ts White Wine Vinegar
      2 ts Fresh Tarragon, Chopped
      2 ts Dried Tarragon, Crushed
      1 c  Mayonnaise
    3/4 c  Baby Shrimp
    1/2 c  Sour Cream
  Mix the mustard, lemon juice, vinegar, and tarragon.  Blend in the
  mayonnaise.  Add the shrimp, then the sour cram.  Blend well.  Cover and
  chill. Makes about 2 1/2 cups of dip. SUGGESTED DIPPERS: Butterflake
  Biscuit Chips, Cabbage, Chili Peppers, String Beans, Artichoke Leaves.
  From: Syd's Cookbook.
      Title: Bacon and Smoked Oysters
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings: 15
      2 cn Smoked oysters
    1/4 c  Light vegetable oil
    1/2 lb Bacon strips
     40    Round wooden toothpicks
      3 tb Garlic, minced
  1. Cut bacon strips in thirds.
  2. Wrap a bacon slice around each oyster and place a toothpick through to
  hold it in place.
  3. In a medium skillet, heat oil, and add garlic.
  4. Cook wrapped oysters in oil until bacon is crisp.
  5. Remove from pan and drain on a paper towel to drain.
  Serves 15
      Title: Bacon and Cheese Eggs
 Categories: Eggs, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      6    Hard cooked eggs
      3 tb Mayonnaise
      2 sl Crisp bacon
      2 ts Vinegar
    1/4 c  Grated cheddar
    1/8 ts Salt
  Mash egg yolks and stir with bacon, cheese, mayonnaise, vinegar and salt.
  Fill egg white halves.  Top with crumbled bacon.
  From:  Barbara Younger (FCTP67A) - Prodigy Posted by: Debbie Carlson -
  Cooking Echo
      Title: Bacon Artichoke Bundles
 Categories: Appetizers, Entertain
   Servings: 30
      1 lb Bacon
      3    Jars marinated artichoke
           -hearts; drained
      1    Jar spicy brown mustard
  Slice strips of bacon in half crosswise. Spread one side of bacon with a
  thin layer of mustard. Drain artichoke hearts thoroughly and place one
  piece of articoke at one end of bacon. (If artichoke hearts are too large,
  they may be sliced in half before wrapping in bacon.) Roll and secure with
  a wooden toothpick. Place rolled bacon strips on a broiler pan, making sure
  they do not touch each other. Bake in a 375 degree oven for 30-45 minutes,
  turning once, until bacon is cooked. (This may be done early in the day.)
  Drain on paper towels and refrigerate until serving time. Reheat on baking
  sheet at 350 degrees for 10 minutes or until hot. Source: "Teasers and
  Appeasers", an Hors d'Oeuvre cookbook. Reformatted by: CYGNUS, HCPM52C
      Title: Bacon Horseradish Dip
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  1
    1/2 c  Miracle Whip
      1 c  Sour Cream
    1/4 c  Real Bacon Bits
    1/4 c  Prepared Horseradish
  Combine all ingredients and mix until blended.  Cover and chill until
  serving time.  Makes 2 cups.  From: Los Angeles Times.
      Title: Bacon Olive Hot Appetizer
 Categories: Appetizers, Pork, Cheese
   Servings:  4
      6    Slices Bacon Crumbled
      1 c  Ripe Olives, Chopped
    1/2 c  Green Onion Tops, Chopped
  1 1/2 c  Shredded Cheddar Cheese
      1 ts Curry
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
  Mix all ingredients.  Toast bread on one side and cut in assorted shapes.
  Spread mixture on untoasted side.  Broil until brown or freeze until ready
  to use.  Typed by Syd Bigger.
      Title: Bacon Roll Ups
 Categories: Appetizers, Pork, Cheese
   Servings: 50
      6 oz Cream Cheese With Chives
      1 tb Milk
     25    Mixed Grain Sandwich Bread
     25    Bacon Cut In Halves
  Combine milk and cheese.  Stir to spreading consistency.  Spread about 2
  teaspoons on each side of bread, thin cut in 2 pieces.  Roll bread and wrap
  with bacon.  Place on broiler pan.  bake at 350øF for 30 minutes or until
  bacon browns.  These freeze well.  Thaw before cooking.  Yields 50.
      Title: Bacon-Flavored Dip Mix
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  1
      2 tb Instant Bacon Bits
      1 ts Instant Beef Bouillon
      1 tb Instant Minced Onion
    1/8 ts Minced Garlic
  Combine all ingredients in a small bowl; blend well.  Spoon mixture onto a
  6-inch square of aluminum foil and fold to make airtight.  Lable as
  Bacon-Flavored Dip Mix.  Store in a cool, dry place and use within 6
  months.
  Makes 1 package (about 3 T) of mix. Bacon Flavored Dip: Combine 1 cup of
  sour cream and 1 package of mix. Chill at least 1 hour before serving.
  Makes about 1 cup of dip.
  VARIATIONS:  Substitute 1 cup yogurt, 1 cup cottage cheese or 1 (8 oz)
  package of softened cream cheese for sour cream.
      Title: Baked Cheddar Olives
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings: 24
      1 c  Cheddar Cheese, Grated
      2 tb Unsalted Butter, Softened
    1/2 c  Flour
    1/8 ts Cayenne Pepper
     24    Pimiento-Stuffed Olives
  Drain olives and pat dry with towels.  Combine cheese and butter in a bowl.
  Add flour and cayenne and blend until well mixed.  Drop the dough by
  tablespoons onto wax paper and wrap or mold each piece of dough around an
  olive, covering it completely.  Bake the wrapped olives on a baking sheet
  in the middle of a preheated 400øF oven for 15 minutes or until golden.
  Serve warm.  Makes 24 olives. A 1969 Gourmet Magazine Favorite.
      Title: Baked Party Dip
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  6
      1 lg Round loaf dark bread (about
           -2 pounds, unsliced)
      1 bn Scallions, chopped
      6    Garlic cloves, finely minced
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      1 pk (8 ounces) cream cheese, cut
           -into small chunks and
           -softened
      2 c  (16 ounces) sour cream
      3 c  (12 ounces) grated mild or
           -medium cheddar cheese
      1 cn (14 ounces) artichoke hearts
           -(water packed, not
           -marinated),
  From: Mr. Food Cookbook (subtitled: Ooh It's So GOOD!) Posted in FidoNet
  Cooking Echo by Sonya Whitaker-Quandt  1/92
  "Your party will be the best one of the year when you serve this special
  dip baked inside a loaf of bread. It will be the centerpiece of the table
  and the centerpiece of the party, too."
  drained and cut into quarters Garlic bread for serving
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Cut a hole about 5 inches in diameter in the
  top of the bread. (If you wish, make a decorative zigzag pattern.) Reserve
  crusty part to make top for loaf. Scoop out most of the soft inside portion
  of the loaf and save for another purpose, such as stuffing or bread crumbs.
  In a skillet, saute' the scallions and garlic in the butter until scallions
  wilt. Do not burn! Place the cream cheese in a medium sized bowl; add the
  scallions, garlic, sour cream, and Cheddar cheese. Mix well. Fold in the
  artichoke hearts. Fill hollowed-out bread with this mixture. Replace top of
  bread and wrap in a double thickness of heavy-duty aluminum foil. Bake for
  about 1-1/2 to 1-3/4 hours. Remove foil and top of bread and serve, using
  thin slices of warm garlic bread as dippers.
  Note: The best part of this dish is when the dip is gone and all you have
  left is the breadd, which is soaked in all those delicious ingredients.
  Just break the bread up and pass it around!
      Title: Baked Potato Chips
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
  3 1/2 lb Red Boiling Potatoes -
           Or white boiling potaotes,
           Cut crosswise into
           1/8-inch thick slices
      6 tb Butter - melted (3/4 stick)
           Salt and freshly ground
           Pepper
        Position racks in upper and lower third of oven and preheat to
    500F. Lightly grease 2 baking sheets.  Arrange potato slices in single
    layer on prepared baking sheets.  Brush generously with butter.  Bake
    7 minutes.  Switch pan positions and continue baking until potatoes
    are crisp and browned around edges, about 7 to 9 minutes.  Transfer to
    heated platter.  Sprinkle with salt and freshly ground pepper.  Serve
    immediately.
      Title: Baked Potato Spears
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  4
      3 lg Baking Potatoes
    1/4 c  Miracle Whip Salad Dressing
           ;Onion Salt
           ;Pepper
  Scrub the potatoes and cut them lengthwise into thick slices, then cut the
  slices into thick strips.  Brush the strips with the salad dressing. Place
  on a greased 15 1/2 X 10 1/2-inch jelly roll pan and season to taste with
  the onion salt and pepper.  Bake in a preheated 375 Degree F for 50 minutes
  or until tender and golden brown.
  NOTE:
  The recipe can be doubled for an entertaining snack or to serve with
  hamburgers or bratwurst.
      Title: Baked Spinach
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
    1/2 c  Butter
      8 oz Cream Cheese
      2 pk Frozen Spinach
      1 pk Lipton Onion Soup Mix
           Breadcrumbs
  Melt butter in a large frying pan.  Add 2 packages of spinach.  Break up
  and stir.  Add cream cheese and onion soup mix.  Stir well.  Place in a
  casserole.  Top with breadcrumbs and bake at 300oF for 45 minutes.
      Title: Baked Sweet Red & Yellow Pepper Wedges
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      2 md Size sweet red peppers
      2 md Size sweet yellow pepper
      1 md Size onion fine chopped
      1 cn (28-oz) crushed tomatoes
           -well drained
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh parsley
    1/4 c  + 2 tablespoon olive oil
      3 tb Pine nuts
      4    Clove garlic fine chopped
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 c  Fresh bread crumbs
  Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Lightly oil 13 x 9 inch baking pan. Trim tops
  off peppers; discard stems and finely chop tops. CUt each pepper lengthwise
  into sixths. Place wedges, cut side up, in oiled pan; set aside. Combine
  pepper tops, onion, tomatoes, parsley, the 1/ 4 cup olive oil, pine nuts,
  garlic, salt and pepper in medium size bowl. Spoon equal amounts of mixture
  into each of the pepper wedges. Bake wedges in preheated oven at 375
  degrees for 25-30 minutes or until just tender. Sprinkle bread crumbs and
  remaining 2 tablespoon oil over all. Bake 10 minutes longer.
      Title: Baked Vegetable and Seafood Won Tons
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      1    Envelope vegetable soup mix
           -15 ounces
  ricotta cheese 1/2     pound imitation crabmeat, chopped 1/4 teaspoon
  garlic powder 1/8     teaspoon                black pepper 40 won ton
  wrappers 1       Tablespoon vegetable or olive oil
  Preheat oven to 350~F.
  In a medium bowl, combine soup mix, cheese, crab, garlic powder and pepper
  Place 1 Tablespoon mixture on center of each won ton. Brush edges with
  water; fold each corner into center and press to seal. Arrange seam side
  down on lightly greased cookie sheet; brush wontons with oil. Bake 25
  minutes or until crisp and golden brown, turning once.
  Variation:  Use 1 1/2 cup chopped shrimp in place of crab.
  Note:  If not going to back immediately, cover filled won tons with damp
  cloth until ready to bake, then brush with oil.
  Nutr. Info. Per won ton: Calories 45/fat 2g/cholestrol 6mg
  Prep time 25 minutes               Bake time: 25 minutes
      Title: Banana Curry Dip
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  2
      1 tb Butter
      1    Onion, finely chopped
      1    Banana
      1 tb Curry powder
    1/2 c  Water
      1 tb Apricot jam
    1/2 c  Sour cream
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
    1/2 ts Salt
  Absolutely delicious with crunchy vegetables, this is also great with
  crackers, chicken fingers and wings.
  pepper
  In saucepan, melt butter over medium heat; cook onion for 3 minutes, or
  until softened but not browned. Push to side of pan. Thickly slice banana.
  Add to pan and cook for 1 minutes. Add curry powder and cook for 1 minute,
  stirring all ingredients together. Add water and bring to boil; reduce heat
  and simmer for 10 minutes or until thickened and liquid is reduced by half.
  Remove from heat; stir in jam. Transfer to food processor or blender;
  process until smooth. Add sour cream,mayonnaise, salt, and pepper to taste;
  process just until combined. (Can be covered and refrigerated for up to 1
  day. Let stand at room temperature for 30 minutes before serving.) Makes 2
  cups.
  Origin: Canadian Living, December 1991. Shared by: Sharon Stevens
      Title: Bar Cheeze a la Win Shooter's *** (Fbpm0
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings: 12
      1 lb Velveeta cheese; (no substit
    1/2 lb Unsalted butter at room t
      8 oz Pkg cream cheese; softened
      5 oz Bottle prepared horseradi
    1/4    Melted and strained bacon gr
      2 pt Onion juice
    1/8 pt Tabasco hot red pepper sauce
      1    Few drops of red and yell
    Place all ingredients in top of double boiler over
    simmering water. Stir occasionally until melted and
    smooth. The mixture will look coarse in texture. For
    best results put it through blender; using on/off
    speed on high for two or three minutes until satiny
    smooth. If you do not have a blender; use electric
    mixer on high speed, beating until smooth. Pour into
    refrigerator containers. Keeps well up to four or five
    weeks if tightly covered and refrigerated. Freezes
    well up to six months. Makes about a quart, which
    won't last long!
      Title: Barbecue Bits
 Categories: Pork, Appetizers
   Servings: 10
      1 lb Franks, 1/2 " rounds
    1/4 c  Vinegar
      3 tb Brown Sugar
      1 tb Worcestershire
      1    Garlic Clove, minced
    1/4 ts Pepper
  1 1/2 c  Tomato Sauce
      1    Onion, small, minced
      1 tb Mustard
    1/2 ts Curry Powder
      1 ts Salt
           Picks
  Combine all ingredients, except FRANKS, in saucepan. Simmer 15 min. Chill
  until serving time. Heat sauce in chafing dish 15 min. before serving. Add
  FRANK rounds; heat thoroughly. For serving, guests spear FRANKS with picks.
      Title: Barbecued Garlic
 Categories: Appetizers, Barbecue
   Servings:  8
      8    Heads Garlic
      4 tb Butter
           Springs Of Fresh Rosemary *
  *  Fresh Oregano also may be used.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Remove the papery outer covering from whole garlic head, but do not
  separate the cloves or peel them. Place as many whole heads of garlic on a
  large square of aluminum foil as there are people to be served. Top with
  butter (4 T per 8 Heads) and a few sprigs of fresh rosemary or oregano. If
  fresh herbs are unavailable, substitute dried (2 t of dried herbs for 8
  heads of garlic).  Fold the foil over the garlic and seal the package well.
  Cook over hot coals for 45 minutes, turning the package occasionally with
  tongs.
      Title: Barbecued Spareribs
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  4
      2 lb Pork spareribs
      2 tb Dark soy sauce
      1 tb Tomato paste
      2 pn Five Spice Powder
      3 tb Honey
      1    Garlic clove, crushed
      1    Piece ginger root, peeled,
           -grated (1/2")
    1/2 c  Unsweetened orange juice
    1/4 ts Mustard powder
           Orange peel (opt)
  Preheat oven to 375'F. (190'C.). Cut ribs in single portions and arrange in
  a single layer in a roasting pan.
  Mix remaining ingredients in a bowl until thoroughly combined. Spoon
  approiximately 1/2 of the sauce over ribs and bake in preheated oven 30
  minutes.
  Increase oven temperature to 400'F. (205'C.). Turn ribs and spoon remaining
  sauce over ribs. Bake 50-60 minutes, basting and turning frequently until
  ribs are glazed and rich golden brown. Garnish with orange peel, if
  desired, and serve hot.
      Title: Basic Crepe Recipe
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  4
  1 1/2 c  Flour
      1 ts Sugar
    1/8 ts Salt
      3    Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Milk
      2 tb Butter or oil; melted/cooled
  Mixing crepes by hand.
  Sift the dry ingredients into a bowl.  Break the eggs into another bowl and
  mix until yolks and whites are blended.  Make a hole in the middle of the
  dry ingredients and pour in beaten eggs.  (French chefs often break the
  eggs right into the dry ingredients but this makes mixing more difficult.
  Stir the flour mixture into the eggs little by little.  The dough will be
  difficult to work and it may be necessary to add a little milk (or whatever
  liquid is used in the particular recipe) to incorporate all the flour. Add
  the liquid a spoonful at a time and mix it in thoroughly before adding more
  liquid.  When the mixture becomes easy to work (when about half of the
  liquid has been used) the remainder can be added in two portions.
  Add melted butter (and flavorings if indicated).
  Mix again, cover and set aside for at least an hour but not more than 6
  hours at room temperature.  Crepe batter can be held overnight in the
  refrigerater.  If necessary, the crepe batter can be cooked immediately,
  but the "resting" time allows the flour to absorb more liquids, makes the
  mabber easier to handle, and gives the crepes more flavor.  Since flours
  vary in their ability to absorb liquid, if the crepe batter seems too thick
  when you are ready to cook it, a small amount of extra liquid can be added
  at this time.  The consistency could be at least as thin as heavy cream.
  From:  You can do anything with crepes.  1993 Cooking Echo Picnic Cookbook
  exchange. Happy Charring
  ~-- EZPoint V2.2 * Origin: "LaRK's" Place (1:343/26.3)
  ===========================================================================
  BBS: High Country East Date: 07-31-93 (23:19) Number: 1775 From: LAWRENCE
  KELLIE              Refer#: NONE To: ALL Recvd: NO Subj: recipe Conf: (52)
  Cooking
      Title: Basic Fish Mousse
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
    1/2 lb Whitefish fillets
    1/2 lb Cooked lobster
      2 tb Finely diced onion
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Brandy
      1 tb Tomato paste
    1/2 c  Egg whites
    3/4 c  Whipping cream
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. Combine whitefish, lobster, onion, salt, brandy and
  tomato paste in a food processor and blend until smooth. Add the egg whites
  and blend until incorporated. Transfer the mixture to a bowl, cover and
  chill for 30 minutes. Stir in the cream until incorporated. Divide the
  mousse between buttered ramekins. Place the ramekins in a water bath, cover
  and place in oven for 20 minutes. To serve, turn the contents of each
  ramekin out onto a warm plate, spoon some Hollandaise-based sauce over each
  mousse and serve immediately.
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
      Title: Basic Fondue (Fondue Neuchateloise)
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings:  1
  2 1/2 fl Dry white wine
           Clove garlic
  5 1/2 oz Emmental and Gruyere cheese*
      1 ts Cornstarch
    1/2 fl Kirsch**
           Shake pepper
           Grind fresh nutmeg
      6 oz White bread, cubed
  (Note:  the above measurements are for *each* person.
   Multiply by your number of guests.)
  * Grated and mixed half and half.  ** This is Swiss cherry firewater:
  clear, dry-tasting -- *not* "cherry brandy", which is dark and sweet.
  Most good liquor stores should carry it, at least one of the US brands like
  Hiram Walker, or else maybe Bols.  The best Kirsch is "Etter" brand from
  Switzerland, but the odds of your finding it are minuscule.  -- In
  Switzerland, fondue is usually perpared in a "caquelon", an earthenware
  dish with a handle, glazed inside;  but any enamelled saucepan can be used,
  or a not too shallow fireproof dish.  Rub the inside of the pan with half a
  cut clove of garlic, and let it dry until the rubbed places feel tacky. Put
  the wine in the dish and bring it to a boil.  Slowly start adding cheese to
  the boiling wine, and stir constantly until each bit is dissolved, then add
  more.  When all the cheese is in, stir the kirsch into the cornstarch well,
  then add the mixture to the cheese and keep stirring over the heat until
  the mixture comes to a boil again.  Add freshly ground pepper and nutmeg to
  taste.  -- Remove the dish to on top of a small live flame (Sterno or
  alcohol burner) and keep it bubbling slowly. Bread should have been cubed
  ~- about 1-inch cubes -- for spearing with fondue forks and stirring around
  in the cheese.  The old custom is that if you accidentally lose the bread
  into the cheese from the end of your fork, if you're male, you have to buy
  a round of drinks for the table: if you're female, you have to kiss
  everybody.  (Hmm.) .
  Other fondue info:  Do not drink water with fondue -- it reacts unkindly in
  your stomach with the cheese and bread.  Dry white wine or tea are the
  usual accompaniments.  Another tradition:  the "coupe d'midi", or "shot in
  the middle", for when you get full:  a thimbleful of Kirsch, knocked
  straight back in the middle of the meal, usually magically produces more
  room if you're feeling too full.  Don't ask me how this works...it just
  does.  -- The crusty bit that forms at the bottom of the pot as the cheese
  keeps cooking is called the "crouton", and is very nice peeled off and
  divvied up among the guests as a sort of farewell to dinner.
      Title: Basic Salsa
 Categories: Dips, Condiments
   Servings:  2
      1    Whole clove garlic
      1 lb Ripe plum tomatoes, cored
           -and finely diced but not
           -peeled
    1/2 sm Red onion, finely chopped
    1/4 c  Minced fresh coriander OR
    1/4 c  Minced flat leaf parsley,
           -plus 1/2 tsp ground
           -coriander
      1 tb Lime juice
    1/4 ts Salt
  Keep this savory sauce on hand as a dip for taco chips, a topping for
  scrambled eggs, or an accompaniment for Tex Mex dishes
  Prep time:  15 minutes Cook time: 2 minutes.
  Drop the garlic into a small saucepan of boiling water.  Let
  boil,uncovered, over moderate heat for 2 minutes.  Drain well, then mince.
  Place the minced garlic in a medium sized bowl and mix in the
  tomatoes,onion, coriander, lim juice, and salt.  Cover with plastic food
  wrap and let stand at room temperature for 1 hour.  Transfer the mixture to
  a 1 quart preserving jar. Keeps in the refrigerator for 10 days. Makes
  2-1/3 cups.
  RED HOT SALSA
  Increase the garlic to 2 cloves, the lime juice to 1-1/2 tbsp, and add 1
  tbsp chopped jalapeno pepper and 1/4 tsp red pepper sauce.  Proceed as
  directed.
  Makes 2-1/3 cups. **Wash hands after handling the pepper**
  ///\oo/\\\ From the hearth in Sandee's Kitchen...
      Title: Bay Scallop Seviche
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  6
  1 1/2 ts Ground cumin
      1 c  Fresh lime juice
    1/2 c  Fresh orange juice
      2 lb Bay scallops
      1    Hot red chili pepper *
    1/4 c  Red onion, finely chopped
      3    Ripe plum tomatoes **
      1    Red pepper; seeded & chopped
      3    Scallions; chopped
      1 c  Cilantro, chopped
      1    Lime; sliced, for garnish
  *Note: Hot red chili pepper should be finely chopped. ** Plum tomatoes
  should be seeded and chopped.
  Stir the cumin into the lime and orange juices and pour over the scallops.
  Stir in the chopped chili pepper and red onion.  Cover and refrigerate for
  at least 2 hours.
  Just before serving, drain the scallops and mix with the chopped tomatoes,
  sweet pepper, scallions and cilantro.  Garnish with the slices of lime.
  From: American Bistro - by Irena Chalmers ISBN: 0-8092-5047-0
      Title: Beacon Hill Clam Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  6
      1 cn Gorton's Clams
      2 ts Prepared horseradish
      1    3 oz pkg. cream cheese
      1 ts Lemon juice
  Mix horseradish, lemon juice with cream cheese.  Add 1 tsp. of clam juice
  from the can, blend into cream cheese mixture.  Add drained clams.  Add
  additional clam juice if necessary to reach the desired consistency.  Serve
  with chips.
  Shared By: Pat Stockett
      Title: Bean Dip a la Dr. Pepper
 Categories: Dips, Beans
   Servings:  2
      1    Can Red Kidney Beans, Drain
      3 tb Tomato Paste
      2 tb Oil
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Black Pepper
      1    Clove Garlic, Minced
    1/2 c  Dr. Pepper
      4 oz Can Green Chilies, Drained
      1 ts Worcestershire Sauce
      1 c  Sharp Cheddar, Shredded
           Crisp Chopped Bacon
  Combine all ingredients except the last 2 in saucepan; heat to boiling.
  Pour into blender or electric mixer; add cheese. Blend on high speed until
  well mixed. Pour into warmer dish; cover with bacon. Serve with chips,
  crackers. Source: Cookin' with Dr. Pepper.
      Title: Bean Dip
 Categories: Dips, Beans
   Servings:  6
     29 oz Can refried beans
      1    4 oz can chopped ripe olives
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
    1/4 c  Taco sauce
      1 ts Garlic
  1 1/4 c  Grated cheese
  Mix and bake at 350 degrees for 30 minutes.  Good as dip with tortilla
  chips or veggies.  Would make a great burrito.
      Title: Beaver Tails
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  1
           Beaver Tail
  This tid-bit of the old time trappers will be tasted by few of the younger
  generation. Broil the beaver tail over hot coals for a few minutes (or in
  one of those new electric ovens). The rough scaly hide will blister and
  come off, leaving the tail clean, white and solid. Then roast or boil until
  tender. This is considered very strengthening food (use only young beaver).
  For a special treat, cool, souse in vinegar, add raw onion rings, salt and
  pepper to taste.
      Title: Beef Cheese Ball
 Categories: Beef, Cheese, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      8 oz Cream cheese, (yogurt cheese
           -would be just fine) 2 tsp.
           -horseradish, 1
  BEEF CHEESE BALL
  Shred 2 jars chipped beef, saute in 2 Tbls. butter.  Combine half of this
  with tsp. prepared mustard. Roll into ball, then roll in remaining chipped
  beef.
      Title: Beef Jerkey
 Categories: Beef, Appetizers
   Servings: 30
  1 1/2 lb Flank Steak
  Select a 1/2 inch thick flank or top round steak. trim away all fat then
  partially freeze until firm. Slice across the grain in a 1/4 to 1/2 inch
  wide strips. Place meat strips in a shallow dish or heavy plastic bag. Add
  soy or terriyaki sauce to cover meat. If desired onion or garlic powder or
  Worcestershire sauce may be added. Toss to coat each piece. Cover and
  refrigerate several hours or over night.  Lift meat from marinade, drain
  will then air dry for a couple of hours. Arrange meat strips in single
  layer on fine wire screen or cake cooling rack. Place in low oven (175ø to
  200øF) or slowly smoke-cook in smoker until meat is completely dried. Store
  in air-tight container.  Serve as a snack or appetizer.
      Title: Beef Jerky
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  1
    1/2 c  Soy Sauce
    1/2 c  Worcestershire Sauce
      2 tb Ketchup
    1/2 ts Pepper (MORE FOR HOT)
    1/2 ts Garlic Powder
    1/2 ts Onion Salt
      1 lb Beef Roast
  Marinate 1 hour or overnight.  Bake in oven 150 to 170, overnight for 10 -
  12 hours. FROM: KAZ GLOVER DATE: 06-24-93
      Title: Beef Sausage - Nella
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  8
      5 lb Lean Ground Beef
      5 ts Morton Tender Quick Salt
  2 1/2 ts Garlic Salt
  2 1/2 ts Coarse Ground Pepper
      1 ts Hickory Smoke Salt
  In a large bowl combine ground beef, salts and pepper.  Mix well, cover and
  refrigerate.  On second day mix again.  Refrigerate.  On third day mix
  again.  Refrigerate.  On fourth day shape into 5 rolls, about 1-1/2" X 10"
  Spray broiler rack with Pam.  Lay rolls on rack, place on lower oven rack.
  Cook at 150øF for 8 to 10 hours.
      Title: Beef Yakitori
 Categories: Appetizers, Beef
   Servings:  4
    1/2 c  Soy Sauce
      2 tb Lemon Juice
      2 tb Sugar
      1    Garlic Clove (Crushed)
    1/2 ts Ginger (Ground)
      2 tb Vegetable Oil
      1 ts Sesame Seeds
      1 lb Beef Sirloin (Fine Chopped)
      2    Green Onions (Fine Chopped)
  In a 9x5 inch loaf pan, combine soy sauce, lemon juice, garlic, ginger,
  oil, sesame seeds and onion.  Thread meat on 18 to 20 six inch bamboo
  skewers, pushing the skewer in and out as though sewing.  Place skewered
  meat in marinade, turn to coat all sides.  Cover and refriderate 4 hours;
  drain.  Arrange on broiler pan and broil 5 to 8 inches from heating
  element.  Broil 1.5 to 2 minutes; turn to broil 1 minute longer. Serve hot.
      Title: Beer Batter Fried Veggies 'n' Things
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  4
           Oil
      1    Env. Golden Onion Soup Mix
      1 c  Unbleached All-Purpose Flour
      1 ts Baking Powder
      2    Large Eggs
    1/2 c  Beer, Any Regular Beer
      1 tb Prepared Mustard
           Veggies 'N' Things
  In deep fat fryer, heat oil to 375øF.  Meanwhile, in large bowl, beat
  golden onion recipe soup mix, flour, baking powder, eggs, mustard and beer
  until smooth and well belnded.  Let batter stand 10 minutes. Dip Suggested
  Veggies 'N' Things into bater, then carefully drop into hot oil.  Fry,
  turning once, until golden brown; drain on paper towels. Serve warm. Makes
  about 4 cups Veggies 'N' Things.
      Title: Beggars' Purses
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
------------------------------CREPES-----------------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Milk
      4    Eggs
  3 3/4 oz Pastry flour -=OR=-
      3 oz - All-purpose flour -AND-
    3/4 oz - Cake flour
      1 pn Salt
    1/2 oz Melted butter
-----------------------------FILLING----------------------------------
           Chives; blanched
           Caviar
           Sour cream
           -(or creme fraiche)
           Butter; melted
  COMBINE ALL INGREDIENTS for the crepes, except the butter. Whisk well and
  pass through a fine strainer. Let rest 1 hour. Add butter before cooking
  the crepes. Cook the crepes and be careful not to brown them. Lay the crepe
  out on a piece of parchment or a clean towel (don't lay out more than 12 at
  a time or they will dry out). Fill with a spoonful of caviar and sour
  cream. Pull the edges of the crepes up to form small purses and tie with a
  chive. Serve warm or at room temperature, lightly brushed with butter.
  These crepes can also be rolled or folded in the more traditional manner if
  forming the purses seems like a daunting task. The result is beautiful,
  however, and worth the extra effort.
  This elegant recipe comes from Katherine Alford, chief instructor at the
  New York Cooking School. Katherine used to be the chef at the Quilted
  Giraffe in New York. These crepes are a signature dish of that restaurant.
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
      Title: Black Bean Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips, Beans
   Servings:  4
  1 1/2 c  Black Beans, Cooked
    1/3 c  Celery, Minced
    1/2 ts Coriander, Ground
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Dried Cilantro, Crushed, *
    1/3 c  Carrot, Minced
      1 ts Oregano, Dried
      1 ts Cumin, Ground
    1/2 c  Sour Cream
-----------------------------GARNISH----------------------------------
           Fresh Cilantro, OR
           Parsley, Chopped
      1 tb Garlic, Minced
      1 tb Fresh Cilantro, Chopped
  *  Use either the fresh leaves or the dried leaves for this recipe.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Coarsely mash half the beans by hand.  Add the remaining whole beans and
  all of the other ingredients, blending well.  Cover and chill. Garnish with
  cilantro or parsley. Makes about 2 3/4 cups of dip. SUGGESTED DIPPERS: Bok
  Choy, Tortilla Chips, Corn Bread Croutons
      Title: Black Olives with Tomatoes and Capers
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  4
      1 tb Olive oil
      3 md Garlic cloves, chopped fine
      1 sm (3oz) onion, coarsely
           -chopped
     16 oz Can salt free whole tomatoes
      1 c  (about 48) medium sized
           -canned, low salt, pitted
           -black olives,drained and
  Most of us tend to think of olives as a salty-fatty food.  But it's
  possible to buy low salt black olives, featured in the Mediterranean style
  sauce, that have all the good flavor without all of the salt. Yes, the
  capers that lend spark to the sauce are themselves salty; but you can cut
  down on their saltiness by choosing a brand that ranks salt further down,
  and thus in lesser concentration-on the ingredients list,and then draining
  and rinsing the capers well before adding them.  Serve with medium to large
  strands, ribbons, or shapes.
  broken by hand or chopped into about 4 pieces each 3 tbsp capers, drained
  and rinsed 1 tbsp balsamic or good quality red wine vinegar 1 tbsp double
  concentrate tomato paste 2 tsp sugar 1/2 tbsp dried oregano
  In a large skillet or saucepan, heat the olive oil with the garlic and
  onion over moderate heat.  When they sizzle, add the tomatoes, breaking
  them up with your hands.  Then stir in the remaining ingredients. Simmer
  the sauce until it is thick but still slightly liquid, 5-7 minutes.  Serve
  over cooked pasta. Serves 4.
      Title: Blini with Three Caviars
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings: 18
  2 1/2 tb Sugar
      2 c  Milk
      2 tb Unsalted butter, melted,
           Plus additional for brushing
           -the griddle
      1 c  Buckwheat flour (available
           -at natural foods stores and
           Specialty foods shops)
      1 c  All-purpose flour
      1 ts Salt
      2 lg Eggs, separated
    3/4 c  Well-chilled heavy cream
  (Buckwheat Yeast Pancakes With Three Caviars) from 1989
  a 1/4-ounce package (2 1/2 teaspoons) active dry yeast about 2 cups sour
  cream as an accompaniment about 4 ounces each black caviar, golden caviar,
  and salmon roe
  In a large bowl proof the yeast with 1/2 tablespoon of the sugar in 1/3 cup
  lukewarm water for 10 minutes, or until it is foamy. Stir in 1 cup of the
  milk, heated to lukewarm, the remaining 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 tablespoons
  of the butter, and the buckwheat flour, beat the batter for 1 minute, and
  let it rise, covered with plastic wrap, in a warm place for 2 hours or
  chill it, covered tightly, overnight. (Chilling overnight produces a
  tangier flavor. Let the batter come to room temperature before continuing
  with the recipe.) Stir in the remaining 1 cup milk, heated to lukewarm, the
  all-purpose flour, the salt, and the yolks, beat the mixture for 1 minute,
  and let it rise, covered with the plastic wrap, in a warm place for 1 hour,
  or until it is double in bulk and bubbly. In a bowl beat the cream until it
  holds soft peaks and fold it into the batter. In a metal bowl beat the egg
  whites until they just hold stiff peaks and fold them into the batter
  gently but thoroughly.
  Heat a griddle or large skillet over moderate heat until it is hot, brush
  it lightly with the additional melted butter, and spoon tablespoons of the
  batter onto the griddle, spreading them to form 3-inch rounds. Cook the
  blini for 1 minute on each side, or until the undersides are golden.
  Transfer the blini as they are cooked to a platter and keep them warm,
  covered with a kitchen towel. Make blini with the remaining batter in the
  same manner, brushing the griddle lightly with the butter as necessary. The
  blini may be made 2 days in advance and kept covered and chilled. Reheat
  the blini, covered with foil, in a 350~ F. oven for 10 to 15 minutes, or
  until they are warm, or microwave them on a microwave-safe platter, covered
  with microwave-safe plastic wrap, at high power (100%) for 2 minutes, or
  until they are warm.
  Arrange 3 or 4 blini on each of 18 small plates, top them with some of the
  sour cream, and arrange some of the caviar decoratively on the sour cream.
  Serves 18 with blini to spare.
  Source: Gourmet magazine, January 1991 - favorite recipes from old issues
      Title: Blintz Batter - (Mama Leah Cookbook)
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings: 16
      4    Eggs
      1 tb Corn oil
      1 c  Milk or water
      1 c  Flour
      1 pn Pinch salt
  Combine oil and eggs in bowl and beat until light and frothy.  Beat in milk
  or water, then beat in flour and optional salt until well blended. Pour
  batter into a pitcher, cover and refrigerate for 10 to 15 minutes, until
  flour absorbs liquid and thickens. Place an 8 or 9 inch pan over medium
  heat.  Dip a paper towel into some vegetable oil and lightly grease pan.
  When it is very hot, quickly pour batter into pan, swirl very quickly to
  cover entire surface and rapidly back excess into pitcher. Shake crepe on
  to clean tea or paper towel. Cover with plastic wrap or damp towel until
  ready to use. To freeze: Place wax paper between layers. Wrap well in foil.
      Title: Blue Cheese Dip
 Categories: Dips, Cheese
   Servings:  8
      1 pk Blue cheese(4oz)
      1 pk Cream cheese,softened(8oz)
    1/3 c  Sweet white wine
      1 tb Snipped parsley
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
      1 ds Garlic powder
      2 tb Snipped parsley
  Mix blue cheese and cream cheese in small mixer bowl; stir in wine
  gradually. Beat until light and fluffy. Beat in 1 tablespoon parsley, the
  Worcestershire sauce and garlic powder.
  Cover and refrigerate until ready to serve. Garnish with 2 tablespoons
  parsley.
      Title: Blue Cheese & Walnuts
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings:  6
      1 c  Walnuts
      1 c  Crumbled blue cheese
      1    Egg beaten with 1 tb water
  Just chop 1 cup of walnuts (depending on the size of brie you need to
  cover) and stir into 1 cup crumbled blue cheese.  Press onto the top of the
  brie and carefully wrap a sheet of thawed puff pastry dough (Roll out to
  size needed).  Use fingers wet with cold water to seal underside of pastry.
  Cut off excess to make cut-outs and adhere to top of brie with a little
  cold water.  I refrigerate my brie at this point until I'm ready to bake.
  Remove from fridge, Brush w/egg wash (1 egg beaten with a Tbsp. cold water)
  and bake on a cookie sheet covered with baking parchment in a 375 degree
  oven for about 20 minutes until golden. (Parchment makes it simple to
  transfer brie to serving dish.)  Let Baked Brie stand for 20-30 Min. before
  cutting to let it firm up a little.
      Title: Blue Cheese Souffle
 Categories: Cheese, Dips
   Servings:  6
      1    Envelope unflavored gelatin
      2 tb Cool water
      4 tb Sweet butter
      4 oz Cream cheese
      4 oz Blue cheese--softened
      1    Egg--seperated
      1 ts Dijon mustard
    1/2 c  Heavy cream--whipped
  Blue Cheese Souffle
  A wonderful dip.
  Soften gelatin in cool water, then gently stir over low heat to dissolve.
  Using a food processor or electric mixer, beat together butter and cheeses,
  adding egg yolk, mustard and gelatin. Beat egg white until stiff BUT NOT
  DRY, and gently fold into mixture. Then fold in whipped cream. Prepare a
  1-cup souffle dish with a colar of oiled waxed paper or foil. Tie to the
  dish with string. Spoon mixture into the dish so that it comes up over the
  sides and up to the top of the collar. Chill for several hours or
  overnight.  Remove the collar and serve with crackers or raw vegetables.
      Title: Blue Cornmeal Crepes
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
    1/4 c  All-purpose flour
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Blue corn meal
      4    Eggs
      1 c  Milk
      2 oz Clarified butter
  Mix dry ingredients and add to the wet ingredients.  Let stand 1/2 hour.
  Using non-stick pan with 1 ounce of liquid, roll around the pan until the
  edges turn brown.  Flip over and cook for 5 seconds. Remove from the pan
  and fill with favorite stuffing--salsa, crabmeat, etc.
      Title: Bluegill Dip
 Categories: Seafood, Dips
   Servings:  6
           Worcestershire sauce
           -garlic powder
           Liquid smoke
           -lemon juice
           Salt and pepper
           -mayonnaise
           Steamed fish fillets,
           -boneless
  Directions: Combine all ingredients for fish dip.
      Title: Bob Hope's Favorite Lemon Pie
 Categories: Appetizers, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      1 c  Sugar
      2 tb Sugar
      1 c  Water, boiling
      2 tb Butter
      1    Salt
      1    Pie shell, baked
      2 tb Sugar
      4 tb Lemon juice
      4    Egg yolks
      1    Grated rind of lemon
      3    Egg whites
  Combine cornstarch and 1 cup plus 2 tbl. of sugar, add water slowly,
  stirring constantly, until thick and smooth.  Add slightly beaten egg
  yolks, butter, lemon rind and juice and salt.  Cook 2 or 3 minute.  Pour
  into baked shell.  Cover with meringue made from 3 egg whites, beaten stiff
  and 2 tbl. sugar.  Bake in a slow oven 15 minutes or untilbrown.
      Title: Boboli Aka Focaccia Bread
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  8
      1 pk Yeast
    1/4 c  Water
  2 1/4 c  Warm water
      6 tb Olive oil,+ extra for pans
  5 1/2 c  To 6 cups flour
      1 ts Salt (optional)
  1 Pkg yeast. 1/4 C water, 2 1/4 C warm water, 6 T. olive oil, plus some
  extra for pans,  5 1/2 to 6 C flour, 1 t. salt (optional). Mix together and
  let rise 30 to 40 minutes. Divide dough into 3 parts and place in 3
  olive-oiled pie pans. Dimple dough with fingers. Place on top the following
  mixture:  Coarse sea (or Kosher) salt, fresh ground pepper, chopped
  rosemary and thyme. If herbs are dried, soak them in water for 10 minutes
  and then pat dry on paper towels.
   Let rise 50 to 60 minutes.  Bake at 350 degrees F for 25 minutes. May dip
  in olive oil. Happy Charring
  ~-- EZPoint V2.2 * Origin: "LaRK's" Place (1:343/26.3)
  ===========================================================================
  BBS: High Country East Date: 08-02-93 (08:30) Number: 1962 From: LAWRENCE
  KELLIE              Refer#: NONE To: ALL Recvd: NO Subj: recipe Conf: (52)
  Cooking
      Title: Bourbon Pate
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
           Jim Vorheis
 10 1/2 oz Beef broth
      4 oz Can Sell's or other good
           -quality pate
      3 oz Cream cheese
      2 ts Unflavored gelatin
    1/2 c  Cold water
    1/2 c  Bourbon
  Mix cream cheese and pate and spread in bottom of 3 cup mold. Chill.
  Dissolve gelatin in cold water.  Heat beef broth and combine with gelatin.
  When pate mixture is firm, pour gelatin on top. Chill. Unmold and serve
  with club crackers.
  Colorado Cache Cookbook (1978) From the collection of Jim Vorheis
      Title: Brandied Cheddar Spread
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips, Spreads, Cheese
   Servings:  5
      1 lb Sharp Cheddar Cheese
    1/3 c  Brandy
      3 tb Butter, Room Temperature
      2 tb Heavy Cream
      1 ds Nutmeg
      1 ds Cayenne Pepper
  Put the cheese through a meat grinder, food processor and etc. using the
  finest blade. Combine the cheese in a mixing bowl with all other
  ingredients. Mix well.  Chill in the refrigerator. Remove from the
  refrigerator about a half-hour before serving so the cheese may be spread
  easily. A good bourbon may be substituted for brandy with excellent
  results. Makes about two cups.
      Title: Brandied Gorgonzola Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese, Dips
   Servings:  2
    1/2 c  Gorgonzola Cheese
    3/4 c  Sour Cream
    1/4 ts White Pepper
    3/4 ts Brandy
  Blend the gorgonzola cheese and sour cream until smooth.  Add the remaining
  ingredients and blend well.  Cover and chill.  Makes about 1-1/4 cups of
  dip.  SUGGESTED DIPPERS:  Cherry Tomatoes, Green Zucchini, Jicama,
  Pearapple, Anjou Pear, Nectarine.
      Title: Brandied Tomato Gravy
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings: 12
      1 cn Tomatoes(8oz)
      4 tb Butter or margarine
      2 tb Flour,all-purpose
      1 cn Beef broth(14oz)
      1 tb Brandy
    1/2 ts Meat-extract paste
    1/4 ts Salt
  1. Drain tomatoes; reserve liquid. Finely chop tomatoes; set aside.
  2. In 1-quart saucepan over medium heat, melt butter or margarine. Stir in
  flour; cook 1 minute.
  3. Gradually stir in beef broth, tomato liquid and tomatoes, brandy,
  meat-extract paste and salt; cook, stirring until gravy thickens and
  boils.
  NOTE: Meat-extract paste is an extract of meat, concentrated to a paste,
  with seasoning added and packed in a jar. It is available in most
  supermarkets.
      Title: Brandy Cheese Ball
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings: 10
      4 oz BLUE CHEESE,SOFT,CRUMBLED
      8 oz CREAM CHEESE,SOFTENED
      2 tb PARSLEY,FRESH,CHOPPED
      2 tb BRANDY OR COGNAC
      1    GARLIC CLOVE,FINELY CHOPPED
    1/3 c  SESAME SEED, TOASTED
  BEAT BLUE CHEESE, CREAM CHEESE, PARSLEY, BRANDY AND GARLIC IN SMALL BOWL ON
  LOW SPEED UNTIL SMOOTH.  COVER AND REFRIGERATE ABOUT 6 HOURS OR UNTIL FIRM.
  JUST BEFORE SERVING, SHAPE CHEESE MIXTURE INTO A BALL; ROLL IN SESAME SEED.
  GARNISH WITH CHOPPED PARSELY IF DESIRED.
      Title: Brie En Croate
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese, Eggs
   Servings:  5
      1    Brie Round
      1    Pasrty Dough
      1    Egg
      2 tb Milk
  Completty enclose cheese in pastry.  Make egg wash of egg and milk.  Put
  brie on baking sheet with seam side of dough down.  Brush with egg wash.
  Cut garnish of leaves, flowers, etc., from scraps of pastry and decorate
  top of Brie.  Bake at 350øF about 30 minutes or until golden brown.
      Title: Broccoli and Blue Cheese in Prepared Puff
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings:  8
           Prepared Pie Pastry
      4    Eggs
      1 lb Ricotta Cheese
    1/2 lb Crumbled Bleu Cheese
      4 c  Cooked Broccoli Florets
  Preheat oven to 400øF for 10 minutes.  Beat eggs until light.  Mix in both
  cheeses, pepper and nutmeg until well mixed.  Stir in broccoli.  Set aside.
  Place prepared pie crust in 9" quiche dish.  Pour filling into crust. Bake
  30 minutes.
      Title: Broccoli and Mushroom Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips, Cheese
   Servings:  1
      2 c  Broccoli, Chopped
      1 tb Vegetable Oil
      1    Garlic Clove
    1/2    Onion, Chopped
    1/4 lb Mushrooms, Chopped
    3/4 c  Cottage Cheese, Low Fat
    1/4 c  Yogurt, Low Fat Plain
      1 pn Salt And Pepper To Taste
  Cook broccoli just until tender-crisp, (3 minutes). Drain and put under
  cold water. In nonstick skillet, heat oil over medium heat; add garlic,
  onion and mushrooms and cook, until onion is tender. Set aside.  In
  blender, combine cottage cheese and yogurt; season with salt and pepper to
  taste. Process just until mixed. Cover and refrigerate. Makes 2-1/2 cups.
      Title: Broiled Deviled Tomatoes
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  4
      4    Garlic Cloves Mashed
      1 tb Dijon Mustard
    1/2 ts Dry Mustard
      1    Salt And Pepper To Taste
      2 tb Virgin Olive Oil
      4    Small Tomatoes, Halved
  In bowl, combine garlic, Dijon mustard, salt and pepper to taste.  Add oil,
  drop by drop, whisking till smooth.  Place tomatoes in buttered baking dish
  and spread with mustard mixture.  Broil tomatoes 3 inches from heat for 1
  minute or till tops are bubbly and golden.
      Title: Broiled Seafood Canapes
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings: 12
      1 c  Cooked seafood, flaked
      6 sl White bread
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/4 c  Cheddar or 1/3 cup ketchup
           -or chili sauce
           American cheese, grated
  Toast bread on one side; trim off crusts and cut bread in half. Butter un
  toasted sides; cover with a layer of seafood, then ketchup and top with
  cheese. Place canapes on a baking sheet under the broiler. Broil until the
  cheese is melted and the canapes are heated through. Makes 12 canapes.
      Title: Brunch Quiche
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      1    (7-oz) or 1/2 lb pkg elbow
           -macaroni - 2 cup uncooked
      6 sl To 8 sl bacon chopped
      2 c  Shredded american cheese
      2 c  Shredded monterey jack
           -cheese
      2 c  Soft bread cubes
      1 md Onion finely chopped
      1 sm Green bell pepper finely
           -chopped
      4    Egg separated
      2 c  Milk
      1 ts Salt
      6    To 8 drop bottled hot pepper
           -sauce
  Red salsa (optional)
  Prepare elbow macaroni according to package directions; drain. In medium
  skillet, cook bacon until crisp; drain. In large bowl, combine macaroni,
  bacon, cheeses, bread cubes, onion and green pepper. In medium bowl, beat
  together egg yolks, milk, salt and hot pepper sauce. Add to macaroni
  mixture; mix well. In large bowl, beat egg whites until stiff. Fold into
  macaroni mixture. Put into buttered 12 inch quiche dish or a 13 x 9 inch
  baking dish. Place a shallow baking dish with 1-2 inches water on lowest
  rack of a 325 degree oven. Place quiche on center rack. Bake until set and
  knife inserted in center comes out clean, about 1 hour. Let stand 5 minutes
  before cutting. Garnish as desired. Serve with salsa. Refrigerate
  leftovers.
      Title: Buffalo Chicken Wings W/ Blue Cheese Dipping Sauce
 Categories: Chicken, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      6 tb Butter or margarine
    1/4 c  Hot pepper sauce
           Vegetable oil for frying
     18    Chicken wings, disjointed,
           -tips discarded
           Dipping Sauce:
    1/4 lb Blue cheese, Roquefort or
           -Gorgonzola
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
    1/2 c  Sour cream
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Wine vinegar
  hot pepper sauce to taste
  Prep: 10 minutes Cook: 35 minutes Serves: 36 mini-drumsticks
  These spicy hot wings w/ cool, creamy dip are all the rage. Serve w/ plenty
  of ice-cold beer.
  1. Melt butter in a small saucepan. Add hot sauce & remove from the heat.
  2. In large frying pan or deep-fat fryer, heat 1" of oil to 375ø. Fry wings
  in batches w/o crowding until golden brown, 12 1/2 minutes. Drain on paper
  towels.
  3. Brush wings w/ spicy butter & serve warm w/ Blue Cheese dipping sauce.
  BLUE CHEESE DIPPING SAUCE
  In small bowl, mash the blue cheese, leaving some small lumps. Whisk in the
  mayonnaise until blended. Add the remaining ingredients & whisk to blend
  well. Cover & refrigerate until serving time.
      Title: Buffalo Chicken Wings with Blue Cheese Dipping Sauce
 Categories: Appetizers, Poultry
   Servings: 36
     10 x  Minutes preparation time
     35 x  Minutes cook time
--------------------------CHICKEN WINGS-------------------------------
      6 tb Butter
    1/4 c  Hot pepper sauce
           Vegetable oil; for frying
     18    Chicken wings (about 3lb)
           -disjointed with tips discrd
--------------------BLUE CHEESE DIPPING SAUCE-------------------------
    1/4 lb Blue cheese; roquefort or
           -gorgonzola
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
    1/2 c  Sour cream
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Wine vinegar
        ds Hot pepper sauce
  1.  Melt butter in a small saucepan.  Add hot sauce and remove from heat.
  2.  In large frying pan or deep-fat fryer, heat 1 inch of oil to 375F. Fry
  wings in batches without crowding until golden brown, 10 to 15 minutes.
  Drain on paper towels.
  3.  Brush wings with spicy butter and serve warm, with blue cheese dipping
  sauce.
  Sauce:
  In a small bowl, mash the blue cheese, leaving some clumps.  Whisk in the
  mayonnaise until blended.  Add remaining ingredients and whisk to blend
  well.  Cover and refrigerate until serving time.
  From:  365 Ways to Cook Chicken
      Title: Butter Dips
 Categories: Dips, Spreads
   Servings:  6
    1/3 c  Butter(or margarine) put in
           -jelly roll pan in 450
           -degree oven and melt
  Butter Dips
  ~ Remove from oven when melted.  While melting make the following:
  2 1/4 cups flour 1 Tbls sugar 3 tsp baking powder 1 1/2 tsp salt (I cut
  this to 1/2 tsp as I am cutting down on salt) 1 cup milk
  Blend dry ingredients, add milk, turn onto well floured board, knead
  lightly. Roll out on floured board to 12x8" rectangle. Cut dough in half
  lengthwise, then cut crosswise into 16 (or so 3/4") strips. Dip each strip
  in melted butter, turn and dip again and lay in pan. To do this I put the
  pan at an angle, dip and put strips at top.
  Bake 15-20 min at 450.
  Variations:
  1. Add 1/2 cup grated cheese to mixture.
  2. Sprinkle paprike, celery salt or garlic powder over dips before baking.
  3. Add 1/4 cxup minced chives or parsley to mixture.
      Title: Bye Bye Birdy Curry Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese, Dips
   Servings:  4
      2 c  Water
  1 1/2 ts Lemon Juice
      1    Medium Granny Smith Apple
      1 c  Mayonnaise
      1 c  Celery, Finely Diced
    3/4 c  Fresh Pineapple, Crushed, OR
  8 1/4 oz Pineapple, Crushed, Drained
      2 ts Curry Powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Black Pepper
    1/2 c  Cashews, Chopped
    1/4 c  Blue Cheese, Crumbled *
  * Use Gorgonzola cheese if available otherwise any blue-veined cheese will
  do.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Mix the water and lemon juice in a small bowl.  Slice the Granny Smith
  apple and put the slices into the lemon water to soak.  Set aside.  Put the
  mayonnaise into a serving bowl and add the celery, pineapple, curry powder,
  salt and pepper and blend well.  Fold in the cashews.  Remove the apple
  slices from the lemon water and dice.  Stir into the mixture and then stir
  in the Gorgonzola cheese, blending well.  Cover and chill. Makes about 2
  cups of dip. SUGGESTED DIPPERS: Pita Triangles, Bread Chunks, Radishes,
  Scallions, Turnips, Bell Peppers
      Title: Caesar Mayo Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese, Dips, Seafood
   Servings:  4
      2    Anchovy Fillets
  1 1/2 c  Mayonnaise
      1 ts Dijon Mustard
      1 ts Worcestershire Sauce
    1/4 ts Black Pepper
      2 tb Parmesan Cheese
      1 tb Lemon Juice
  Chop and mash the anchovy fillets on a cutting board.  Put in a bowl and
  blend in the mayonnaise.  Add the remaining ingredients and blend well.
  Cover and chill.  Makes about 1-3/4 cups of dip. SUGGESTED DIPPERS:
  Seafood, Deli Roast Beef Or Turkey, Radishes, Broccoli, Cauliflower, Snow
  Peas.
      Title: Cajun Style Chicken Nuggets
 Categories: Appetizers, Chicken
   Servings: 12
      1    Env. Onion Soup Mix *
    1/2 c  Plain Dry Bread Crumbs
  1 1/2 ts Chili Powder
      1 ts Ground Cumin
      1 ts Thyme Leaves
    1/4 ts Red Pepper
      2 lb Boneless Chicken Breasts **
           Oil
  *  You can use onion or onion-mushroom recipe soup mix in this recipe. **
  Chicken breasts should be cut into 1-inch pieces.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  In large bowl, combine onion recipe soup mix, bread crumbs, chili powder,
  cumin, thyme and pepper.  Dip chicken in bread crumb mixture, coating well.
  In large skillet, heat 1/2-inch oil and cook chicken over medium heat,
  turning once, until done; drain on paper towels.  Serve warm and if desired
  with assorted mustards. MICROWAVE DIRECTIONS: Prepare chicken as above. In
  13 x 9-inch baking dish, arrange chicken, then drizzle with 2 to 3 T oil.
  Heat uncovered at High (Full Power) 6 minutes or until chicken is done,
  rearranging chicken once; drain on paper towels. Serve as above. Makes
  about 5 dozen nuggets.
      Title: Calavo Guacamole Dip
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  1
      1 sm Chili pepper
      1 md Onion
      1 sm Garlic clove
      1 sm Tomato, peeled
      2 md Ripe Calavo avocados
      1 tb Fresh lemon or lime juice
    3/4 ts Salt
      1 ds Seasoned salt
      1 ds Dry mustard
  pepper to taste
  Chop chili pepper, onion, garlic, peeled tomato and blend.  Cut avocado
  into halves, remove seed and skin, mash with chili mixture.  Blend in lemon
  or lime juice, salt, pepper, seasoned salt and dry mustard.  Serve with
  crackers, corn chips, potato chips or tortillas.  Makes 1 1/2 cups dip.
      Title: Candied Pecans
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
           Jim Vorheis
      1 ts Cold water
      1    Egg white
      1 lb Large pecan halves
      1 c  Sugar
      1 ts Ground cinnamon
      1 ts Salt
  Beat water and egg white until frothy.  Mix well with pecans. Combine
  sugar, cinnamon and salt.  Mix well with pecans.  Spread on cookie sheet.
  Bake at 225 F for 1 hour.  Stir occasionally.
  Colorado Cache Cookbook (1978) From the collection of Jim Vorheis
      Title: Caramel Fondue
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
     14 oz Pack of caramels
    1/3 c  Water
  Melt in double boiler - stir frequently.  Add dash of salt - pour into
  fondue pot.
  Serve apple chunks, marshmallow, or other fruits as dippers. Roll in
  chopped nuts after dipping.
  Source: My recipe Box
  Courtesy of: Joann Pierce
      Title: Caramelized Onion Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings:  6
      1 tb Unsalted Butter
      1 tb Peanut Oil
      1 lg Red Onion, Sliced
    1/2 c  Sour Cream
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Cayenne Pepper
      1 ts Red Pepper Flakes
    1/8 ts Tabasco Sauce
           Crackers Or Chips
  Saute onion in butter and oil until caramelized (golden brown), about 20
  minutes.  Cool and combine the remaining ingredients.  Mix well and chill
  for at least 1 hour.  Serve with crackers or chips.
      Title: Caribbean Guacamole
 Categories: Dips, Appetizers
   Servings:  8
    1/2 lb Sweet bread,Hawaiian or
           -Portugese
      2 tb Coconut,sweetened,flaked,
           -dried
      1 sm Firm-ripe papaya
      1 lg Firm-ripe avacado
      2 tb Lime juice
      1 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Crushed dried redhot chilies
  Cut bread into 1/4" thick slices, then cut diagonally into triangles.
  Arrange in a single layer in a 10x15" pan. Bake in a 300'F. oven until
  lightly browned, about 10 minutes; turn slices over halfway through baking.
  Cool on racks. If made ahead, wrap airtight and store at room temperature
  up to a day.
  In a 7-8" frying pan, stir coconut over medium-high heat until golden
  brown, about 3 minutes. Pour from pan; set aside.
  Cut papaya in half lengthwise. Discard seeds and peel, leaving halves
  intact. From 1 half, cut 2 lengthwise slices, each about 1/4" thick. Dice
  remaining papaya; set fruit aside.
  Cut avacado in half lengthwise. Discard pit and peel, leaving halves
  intact. From 1 half, cut 2 lengthwise slices, each about 1/4" thick.
  Sprinkle slices with 1 teaspoon lime juice; set aside. Dice remaining
  avacado and mix with remaining lime juice, sugar, and red chilies.
  On a platter, arrange avacado mixture and diced papaya side by side in
  separate mounds. Fan reserved avacado slices next to diced papaya, and
  reserved papaya slices next to avacado mixture. Sprinkle with coconut.
  Serve with toasted bread.
  Per serving: 157 calories; 2.8 grams protein; 7.3 grams fat; (1.1 grams
  saturated fat); 21 grams carbohydrates; 172 milligrams sodium; 0 milligrams
  cholesterol.
      Title: Castle Nacho Grande
 Categories: Appetizers, Beef
   Servings:  6
     10    White Castle hamburgers
      1 lg Can nacho cheese
      1    Head lettuce, chopped
      2    Chopped tomatoes
      1 md Chopped onion
      1 lg Jar salsa
      1 lg Bag nacho chips
      8 oz Sour cream
     25    Chopped black olives
      1 lg Bag shredded chedder cheese
  Spread 1/3 salsa on the bottom of a 9" x 13" pan. Spinkle with 1/2 cup
  shredded cheese and chopped onion. Cut each sandwich into 4 - 6 pieces and
  arrange on top of salsa, cheese and onion. Add more salsa, shedded cheese,
  onion and black olives. Pour nacho cheese over all and bake at 350 deg F>
  for 15-20 minutes. Remove and cool 5 minutes. Top with lettuce, chopped
  tomatoes, onions, shredded cheese, black olives and sour cream dollops.
  Serve with nacho chips.
  Don Marsh, Indianapolis, Indiana
      Title: Catalan Saute of Calamari (Squid) in Onion Marmalade
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  4
  1 1/4 lb Calamari And Tenacles, Clean
      3 tb Olive Oil, Virgin
      1    Dry Red Chile Pepper, Broken
      3 lg Onions
           Salt & Pepper To Taste
  Clean calamari and cut tubes crosswise into 1/2" rings. Dry calamari on
  paper towels and reserve. In a medium frying pan, heat 1 Tbs. oil over
  medium-high heat. Add the calamari and saute until the rings turn opaque
  white, about 30 seconds to one minute. Transfer calamari to a bowl and set
  aside. Wipe pan dry, add remaining oil and heat. Add chile pepper and heat
  until it turns dark. Remove chile with a slotted spoon and discard. Add the
  onions to the hot chile oil and cook, stirring, until onions are wilted,
  about 5 minutes. Reduce heat to medium, partially cover pan and cook,
  stirring occasionally, until onions are caramelized (golden brown), 30-40
  minutes. (Add more oil if onions are dry or stick to the pan). Season with
  salt/pepper. Add calamari and stir until heated throughout. Serve with
  slices of hot or toasted French bread.
      Title: Caviar Kisses
 Categories: Appetizers, Entertain
   Servings:  2
      1 sm Cucumber, scrubbed and
           -trimmed
    1/3 c  Sour Cream
      1 ts Dried dill weed
           Freshly ground black pepper
           -to taste
      1    Jar red salmon caviar
           Fresh dill sprigs
      8    Thin slices whole-wheat
           -bread
           Butter or margarine
  Serves 2
  Slice cucumber into 1/4-inch rounds.  In a small bowl, combine sour cream,
  dried dill and pepper.  Place one teaspoon of the sour cream mixture on
  each cucumber slice.  Garnish each with about 1/2 teaspoon caviar and a
  dill sprig.  Cut bread slices with heart-shaped cookie cutter. Toast and
  butter. Place cucumber slices in center of serving plate and surround with
  toast hearts.
  From: Military Lifestyle magazine, Feb 90. Posted by: Bill McGimpsey
      Title: Caviar Mold
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings: 10
      1    Envelope unflavored gelatin
    1/4 c  Water
           Sour cream
      2 tb Mayonnaise
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 ts Grated onion
    1/4 ts Sugar
      1 ds Hot pepper sauce
      4 oz Caviar
           -(lumpfish or white fish)
           Salt, white pepper
           Parsley sprigs
           Toast rounds
           -or unsalted crackers
  Sprinkle gelatin over water and let stand until softened. Warm 1 cup sour
  cream over low heat, add gelatin and stir constantly until gelatin melts, 1
  to 2 minutes. Remove from heat and add mayonnaise, lemon juice, onion,
  sugar and hot pepper sauce, blending well. Place caviar in strainer and
  rinse carefully with cold water. Shake strainer to remove excess water.
  Reserve 1 tablespoon caviar. Add remaining caviar to sour cream mixture,
  stirring gently. Season to taste with salt and white pepper. Turn into
  greased 2-cup mold or into 8 to 10 small individual molds and chill until
  firm, about 3 to 4 hours. Unmold on serving plate. Place about 6
  tablespoons sour cream on top of large mold or 1 tablespoon on each
  individual mold. Place some of reserved caviar on top of sour cream.
  Surround with parsley and accompany with toast rounds.
  (C) 1992 The Los Angeles Times
      Title: Caviar Mousse
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings:  1
      7    Hard-Boiled Eggs
      2 tb Lemon Juice
      2 tb Water
      1 sm Package Unflavored Gelatin
      6    Anchovy Fillets
      1 ts Worcestershire Sauce
      1 c  Mayonnaise
      1 pn Onion Powder
           Pepper To Taste
  3 1/2 oz Caviar
  Combine all ingredients and refrigerate until ready to serve.
      Title: Caviar, Dill and Purple Onion Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese, Dips, Eggs
   Servings:  4
    1/2 c  Cream Cheese, Softened
    3/4 c  Sour Cream
      3 oz Red Or Black Caviar
      1 ts Lemon Juice
      1 ts Dried Dill, Crushed
      2 ts Purple Onion, Diced
-----------------------------GARNISH----------------------------------
      1    Egg, Large, Hard Boiled
      1 tb Fresh Dill, Chopped
  Beat the cream cheese to a smooth consistency.  Blend in the sour cream and
  add the remaining ingredients, blending well.  Cover and chill.  Just
  before serving, garnish with the egg which has been finely chopped.  Makes
  about 1 1/2 cups of dip. SUGGESTED DIPPERS: Cocktail Rye Bread, Toast
  Triangles, Cucumber, Turnips, Red Bell Pepper Strips.
      Title: Cayenne Mayonnaise Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings:  4
  1 1/2 c  Mayonnaise
    1/2 c  Sour Cream
           Cayenne Pepper, To Taste
  Blend all of the ingredients together until smooth.  Cover and chill. Makes
  about 2 cups of dip SUGGESTED DIPPERS: Seafood Chunks, Pineapple, Cherry
  Tomatoes, Rye Or Cheese Crackers
      Title: Cayenne Pepper Wafers
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings: 72
    1/2 lb Gruyere cheese, grated
      1 c  Unsalted butter, at room
           Temperature
      1 ts Cayenne pepper
      1 ts Salt
  2 1/2 c  Sifted all-purpose flour
      1 c  Chopped walnuts or pecans.
       Heat the oven to 350F.  Cream the cheese and butter.  Sift together
  the cayenne pepper, salt and flour; add gradually to the butter mixture.
  Add the chopped nuts and mix well.  Divide the dough in half and shape into
  logs 1 1/2 inches in diameter.  Wrap well and refrigerate for at least 1
  hour.
       Line baking sheets with parchment paper.  With a sharp knife, cut the
  logs into 1/4-inch thick slices.  Place the wafers 1 to 2 inches apart on
  the baking sheets.
       Bake for 15 to 20 minutes, until lightly colored.  Cool and store in
  an airtight container.
  Makes 6 dozen.
       [The Baltimore Sun; Dec 8, 1991] Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Cereal Crunch
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  4
      1 c  Unsalted pretzel twists
  1 1/2 c  Cheerios
  1 1/2 c  Crispix cereal
    1/3 c  Raisins
    1/4 c  Unsalted dry-roasted peanuts
  Mix all ingredients in a large bowl or jar for a snack mix.
  4 servings, approx 1 cup each 213 calories, 5 g protein, 5 g fat, 40 g
  carbohydrate, 3.3 g fiber, 0 cholesterol, 206 mg sodium, 266 mg potassium.
  Exchanges:  2 starch/bread, 1/2 fruit, 1 fat Source: Univ. of Calif. San
  Diego UCSD Healthy Diet for Diabetes c.1990
  My note:  a dieter would not be able to have 1 cup of this at a time
  because it would use up too many exchanges of the daily meal plan.  For
  comparison 3 c air-popped popcorn is 1 starch/bread exchange.
      Title: Ceviche
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
   Servings:  4
           Karen Mintzias
      1 lb Sea bass; diced in 1/4" pcs.
    3/4 c  Lime juice, freshly squeezed
      2    Tomatoes
           - peeled, seeded and diced
    1/4    Onion; chopped
      2    Serrano chiles; seeded,diced
    1/8 ts Ground oregano
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 c  Clam juice
           Salt & white pepper to taste
  In a medium bowl place the sea bass and the lime juice.  Gently toss them
  together.  Cover the bowl and refrigerate it for 12 hours.
  Place the marinated fish in a colander and let it drain for 1 hour.
  In another medium bowl place the remainder of the ingredients and mix them
  together.
  Add the fish and gently mix it in.
  Chill the ceviche for 2 hours.
  Source: Sausalito South - Manhattan Beach, California
  :       Southern California Beach Recipe - ISBN: 0-9622807-3-9 Typos
  courtesy of Karen Mintzias
      Title: Chalupa Dip
 Categories: Dips, Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings:  4
      3    Avocados
      2 ts Lemon Juice
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      8 oz Sour Cream
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
      1 pk Taco Seasoning Mix
    1/2 c  Green Onion (Chopped)
      3    Tomatoes (Chopped/Drained)
      8 oz Cheddar Cheese (Grated)
  Mash avocados with lemon juice, salt and pepper until smooth.  In separate
  bowl, mix sour cream with mayonnaise and taco seasoning mix.  In loaf pan,
  layer beans, avocado mix, sour cream mix, onions, tomatoes and cheese.
      Title: Cheddar and Broccoli Appetizers
 Categories: Cheese, Appetizers
   Servings: 30
     10 oz Frozen chopped broccoli*
      8 oz Whole kernal corn; drained
    1/4 c  Onion; chopped
    1/2 c  Walnuts; coarsely chopped
    1/2 c  Milk
    1/4 c  Butter; melted
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Bisquick
    1/4 ts Garlic salt
      1 c  Cheddar cheese; shredded
  *Thaw and drain the broccoli.  Heat oven to 375.
   Grease a 9x9x2" pan. Mix broccoli, corn, onion and walnuts. Place in pan.
  Beat remaining ingred. except cheese until smooth, 15 sec. in blender on
  high, stopping blender frequently to scrape sides if necessary, or 1 min.
  with electric mixer on high.
   Pour evenly into pan.  Bake until knife inserted in center comes out
  clean, 23-25 min.; sprinkle with cheese. Bake until cheese is melted, 2-3
  minutes longer. cool 30 minutes. Cut into triangles or squares. Makes 30
  appetizers.
  FROM; BISQUICK RECIPE CLUB LISA CRAWLEY TSPN00B
      Title: Cheddar Chili Cheesecake
 Categories: Entertain, Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings: 12
  1 1/2 tb Butter (for pan)
    1/4 c  Fine breadcrumbs, toasted
    1/4 c  Finely grated ched. cheese
      6 oz Thinly sliced ham
  1 1/2 lb Cream cheese, room temp.
    3/4 lb Sharp cheddar, grated
      1 c  Cottage cheese
    3/4 c  Chopped green onion
      4    Eggs
      3 tb Jalapeno pepper*
      2 tb Milk
      1    Garlic clove, halved
  *seeded and finely chopped Preheat oven to 325. Butter 9" springform pan.
  Mix breadcrumbs and 1/4 cup cheddar. Sprinkle mixture into pan, turning to
  coat.  Refrigerate. Dice about half of ham; reserve remaining slices. Mix
  diced ham with remaining ingredients in blender or processor until smooth.
  Pour slightly more than half of filling into prepared pan. Top with
  reserved ham slices in even layer. Cover with remaining filling. Set pan on
  baking sheet. Bake 1 1/4 hours.  Turn oven off and cool cheesecake about 1
  hour with door ajar.  Transfer cheesecake to rack. Remove sides of pan.
  Cool to room temperature before serving. (Bon Appetit, July 1983)
      Title: Cheddar Harvest Fondue
 Categories: Cheese, Appetizers
   Servings:  4
    3/4 c  Milk
      1 tb Dijon-style mustard
      2 ts Onion powder
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ds Ground black pepper
    3/4 c  Apple juice
    1/4 c  All-purpose flour
      6 oz (1 1/2 cups) shredded sharp
           -cheddar cheese
      4 c  Italian bread cut in 1-inch
           -cubes
      4 c  Assorted blanched
           -vegatables, cut in
           -bite-size
           Pieces
  In a medium saucepan combine until smooth: milk, apple juice, flour,
  mustard, onion powder, salt and black pepper. Cook and stir over medium
  heat until mixture thickens and boils; cook and stir one minute longer.
  Remove from heat; add cheese; stir until melted. Transfer to a fondue pot;
  keep warm. Serve with bread cubes and assorted vegetables. This makes 4
  portions (about 2 cups).
  From: Steve Herrick Source: Best Recipes Mar/Apr 1991
      Title: Cheddar Spread
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings:  4
      1 lb Butter
      8 oz Cheddar, Sharp, Grated
      4 oz Romano Cheese, Grated
      1 ts Worcestershire Sauce
    1/4 ts Garlic Powder
    1/2 ts Paprika, Sweet Or Hot
  All the ingredients should be at room temperature before starting this
  recipe.  Whip slowly, in a medium mixing bowl, with the mixer until the
  mixture is fluffy.  Spread on Bread Slices.  (Rye, Sourdough or regular
  French Bread are great.)  Toast under the broiler until hot.
      Title: Cheddar, Sage, and Walnut Torta
 Categories: Cheese, Appetizers
   Servings:  1
    1/2 lb Cream cheese; softened
      3 tb Fresh sage leaves, chopped
           Whole sage leaves
    1/2 lb Sharp cheddar cheese
           -(such as Vermont Cabot)
           -- shredded
      1 c  Walnuts, chopped
           Whole walnut halves
  Place the cream cheese in a food processor with the chopped sage leaves.
  Blend.  Line a 2-cup mold with a double thickness of cheesecloth.  Arrange
  the whole sage leaves in a decorative pattern on the bottom of the mold.
  Add half the cream cheese mixture, then add shredded cheddar, smoothing out
  the layer and pressing it slightly.  Add the walnuts, again pressing
  gently.  Smooth the remaining cream cheese mixture over the walnuts.  Fold
  the ends of the cheesecloth over the top of the torta mixture and press
  lightly.  Refrigerate the mold overnight.
  To unmold, fold back the top of the cheesecloth.  Invert a serving plate on
  top of the mold and flip them over together.  Lift off the mold and
  carefully remove the cheesecloth.  Garnish the torta with walnut halves.
  Source: The Herb Companion - June/July 1993 Typos by: Karen Mintzias
      Title: Cheese and Sausage Snacks
 Categories: Pork, Cheese, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      3 c  TEABISK (BISQUIK)
      1    ROLL SAUSAGE MEAT
      1 lb GRATED CHEDDAR CHEESE
           -(ORANGE)
      1    SPANISH ONION FINELY CHOPPED
    3/4 c  MILK
  Blend sausage meat and onion (in blender if you wish). Add remaining
  ingredients and mix well. (important to have onion finely ground).
  Drop from teaspoon onto greased cookie sheet
  Bake at 425 (four twenty-five) degrees Fahreneheit 10 -15 minutes until
  browned.
  This is a QUICK and DELICIOUS snack especially helpful for this time of
  year.
  This is my firts time on this echo.  Merry Christmas to all.
      Title: Cheese Balls #1
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings: 20
      1    Stick Butter, Melted
      1 c  Plain Flour
    1/8 ts Cayenne Pepper
      1 c  Grated Sharp Cheddar Cheese
      1 c  Rice Krispies
      1 ds Tabasco Sauce
  Mix all ingredients well.  Mold in small balls (dime size). Bake at 350øF
  for 8-10 minutes.  Watch carefully as they brown quickly.  Will keep
  indefinitely if put in a tin.
      Title: Cheese Ball
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      3 c  Shredded chedder cheese,
           -packed
      8 oz Package cream cheese,
           -softened
      2    Heaping tablespoons
           -mayonnaise
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
  1 1/2 ts Onion powder
  chopped walnuts
  Mix together chedder cheese, cream cheese, mayonnaise, Worchetershire sauce
  and onion powder.  Roll in chopped walnuts. Let chill for 2 hours.  Serve
  with crackers.
      Title: Cheese Balls #2
 Categories: Cheese, Appetizers
   Servings: 10
    1/2 lb Grated cheese
      4    Egg yolk
      1 oz Seasoned flour
           Oil for frying
      1 c  Tomato sauce, as a dip
  Blend egg yolks and cheese to a paste.  Shape into small balls and pass in
  seasoned flour then fry in oil til golden brown. Serve with tomato sauce.
      Title: Cheese Chiles
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings: 12
      1 c  Cheddar Cheese, Shredded
      1 c  Colby Cheese, Shredded
      1 ts Red Chiles, Ground
      1    Cilantro Stems, Bunch *
           Paprika
  * Cut the cilantro stems into 1/2-inch pieces.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Place all ingredients except cilantro and paprika in food processor work
  bowl fitted with steel blade; cover and process until smooth, about 1
  minute.  Roll mixture by teaspoonfuls into chile shapes.  Insert cilantro
  pieces in wide ends of shape for stems.  Sprinkle with paprika.  Cover and
  refrigerate until serving time.
      Title: Cheese Chili Bites
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings: 20
      1 c  All-purpose flour
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
    1/2 ts Hot chili powder
      1 lg Pinch cayenne pepper
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine
    1/2 c  Finely grated Cheddar cheese
      1    Egg, beaten
      1 tb Cold water
      1 tb Sesame seeds
      1 tb Poppy seeds
  Preheat oven to 400'F. (205'C.). Sift flour, salt and spices into a bowl.
  Cut in butter finely until mixture resembles breadcrumbs. Add grated cheese
  and mix well. Mix egg with cold water. Add 2 tablespoons of egg mixture to
  cheese mixture and mix to form a fairly stiff dough. Knead gently on a
  lightly floured surface. Roll out dough to a 12x6" rectangle. Trim edges.
  Cut in half lengthwise and transfer to a baking sheet.
  Breush each half with remaining egg mixture. Sprinkle 1 half with sesame
  seeds and the other half with poppy seeds. Cut each half in 10 triangles
  and separate slightly to prevent sticking. Bake in preheated oven 10-12
  minutes or until light golden and cooked through. Cool on a wire rack.
  Store in an airtight container up to 2 weeks.
      Title: Cheese Crackers
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  1
    1/2 c  Grated sharp cheddar cheese
    1/2 c  Flour, part for rolling
      2 tb Margarine or butter
    1/4 ts Salt
        pn Paprika
        pn Cayenne pepper
      2 tb Water
  Mix all together in a bowl.  Original directions suggested shaping into a
  roll 1 1/2 inch wide, chilling at least 2 hours wrapped in wax paper and
  cutting in thin slices to make 1 dozen or more crackers.  This would
  produce neatly shaped crackers, possibly thicker than desired.
  By rolling very thin, this amount of dough will make small crackers about
  1/2 inch apart to cover 1 1/2 small cookie sheets.  They do puff up while
  baking.  May be cut quickly in random small shapes with a plastic knife.
  Suggested toppings coarse salt (made them too salty), garlic salt, celery
  salt, curry powder, or freshly ground black pepper.  If the dough is very
  dry after rolling, brush tops with water before salting.  If it is soft,
  sprinkle lightly and press the salt into the crackers.
  Bake 5 minutes at 425 F or until browned.
  Based on Jean Pare's Muffins and More, Alberta Canada Shared by Elizabeth
  Rodier 5/93
      Title: Cheese Crisps
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings: 30
      1 c  Grated sharp cheddar cheese
    1/4 c  Unsalted butter
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Whole whaet flour
      In large bowl, combine the cheese, butter and salt.  Add the flour and
  mix thourghly.  Roll into small balls.  Place the balls on an oiled cookie
  sheet and flaten.
      Bake at 400 degrees F for 5 to 8 minutes.  Do not let the edges get
  browned.  Tastes great warm or cold.
      Title: Cheese Diablo Wafers - Hot
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings: 10
      1 c  Unbleached Flour
    1/2 lb Sharp Cheddar Cheese, Grated
    1/2 c  Softened Butter Or Margarine
      1 ts Cayenne Pepper
  Mix all ingredients and shape in 1-inch balls.  Arrange about 2 inches
  apart on baking sheet and bake in very hot oven (450øF) about 6 minutes.
  Serve hot or cool.  Makes about 4 dozen
      Title: Cheese Fondue #1
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings:  4
      8 oz Natural Swiss cheese,diced
      8 oz Gruyere cheese,diced
      2 tb Flour
      1    Clove garlic,halved
      2 c  Dry white wine
      1 tb Lemon juice
      3 tb Kirsch
           French bread,1" cubes
  Place cheese in plastic bag; sprinkle with flour. Toss until cheese is
  coated.
  Rub cut clove of garlic on bottom and side of 3-quart saucepan; add wine.
  Heat over low heat just until bubbles rise to surface (wine must not boil).
  Stir in lemon juice; add cheese, about 1/2 cup at a time, stirring
  constantly with wooden spoon. Stir until cheese is melted. Stir in kirsch.
  Pour into ceramic fondue pot over low heat. Use long-handled forks to spear
  bread cubes; then dip and swirl in fondue with stirring motion.
  NOTE: The Swiss cheese should be aged at least 6 months.
      Title: Cheese Fondue #2
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings:  6
      1 c  Water
      2 c  Dry white such as sauterne
      1 ts Season salt
      1 tb Butter
  Place in top part of double boiler and place directly on burner and bring
  to boil. Put pan in bottom of double boiler and add 4 cups swiss american
  cheese.  Add 3 Tbl. cornstarch, softened with water. Stir until cheese
  melts. Put into fondue pot.
  Source: My recipe box
  Courtesy of: Joann Pierce
      Title: Cheese Hoosies
 Categories: Cheese, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
    1/4 lb Butter or margarine
    1/4 lb "rat" cheese (American)
      2 ts Salt
      2 c  Sifted flour
      1 ds Cayenne
  Cream grated cheese and shortening;  work in flour and salt. Knead on board
  until smooth.  Roll into long thin roll (size of a 25 cent piece) and
  chill.  Slice thin and bake on cookie sheet in 350 degree (F) oven for 8
  minutes. Dust with sugar and keep indefinitely. Serve as hors d'oevres.
      Title: Cheese Log
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese, Eggs
   Servings: 10
    1/2 lb New York Sharp Cheese
    1/2 lb Pimento Cheese
    1/2 lb Cream Cheese
      2    Garlic Cloves
      2 ts Worcestershire Sauce
    1/4 ts Red Pepper
      2 tb Mayonnaise
    1/4 ts Salt
  Grate cheese and mix together with remaining ingredients.  Form mixture
  into a long log shaped roll.  Chill a little and divide into thirds. Roll
  in paprika.  Can be frozen.
      Title: Cheese Onion Morsels
 Categories: Cheese, Appetizers
   Servings: 96
      1 lb Cheddar Cheese (Grated)
    1/2 c  Soft Butter
      1    Egg
    1/4 c  Water
      2 c  All-Purpose Flour
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Baking Powder
    1/2 ts Paprika
    1/2 c  Onions (Finely Chopped)
    1/4 c  Parsley (Chopped) Or Flakes
  Beat cheese and butter. Add egg and water. Blend. Combine flour, salt,
  sugar, baking powder and paprika. Add flour mixture, onions and parsley to
  the cheese mixture. Blend. Drop onto cookie sheet. Bake at 350øF for 15
  minutes or until golden brown. May be frozen and thawed. Reheat at 375øF
  for 5 minutes. Makes 8 dozen.
      Title: Cheese Pretzels
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings:  2
    1/2 c  Unsalted butter, softened
  2 1/2 c  Shredded aged cheddar cheese
      2 tb Dijon mustard
  1 1/4 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
      1    Egg white
  ** %%%%% CHEESE PRETZELS %%%%% **
  Shape these nibblies into pretzels, or make sticks or rounds.  You can make
  them up to three days ahead, then store in a cookie tin.  Serve at toom
  temperature or reheat them in a 300 oven for 5 min.
  poppy or sesame seeds
  In bowl, cream butter until fluffy; beat in cheese and mustard.  Combie
  flour, salt and cayenne; add to bowl and stir just until mixture holds
  together, being careful not to overmix. Form into disc and wrap in plastic
  wrap. Chill for 30 minutes Divide into 1 tbsp balls; roll each ball into 10
  inch strip.  Twist ends over each strip to form pretzel; place on baking
  sheet.  Brush with egg white; prinkle with poppy seeds. Bake in 375 oven
  for 12 to 15 minutes or until pale golden color. Makes about 2 dozen.
  Origin:  Canadian Living Magazine; December 1990 issue. Shared by: Sharon
  Stevens.
      Title: Cheese Puffs
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese, Eggs
   Servings:  4
      8    Slices White Bread
      2 c  Milk
      8 oz Old English Cheese Slices
    1/2 ts Pepper
    3/4 ts Dry Mustard
    1/4 c  Butter, Melted
      1 ts Salt
      3    Eggs
  May be prepared the day before.  At least 4 hours before cooking, trim
  crusts and cut bread into 1" squares. Cut cheese into bite size pieces. In
  large greased casserole, alternate layers of bread and cheese. Pour melted
  butter over top. Beat eggs well, stir in salt, pepper, mustard and milk.
  Combine thoroughly.  Pour over casserole. Cover and refrigerate.  One hour
  before serving, bake at 350øF for 30 minutes covered, then 30 minutes
  uncovered until top is golden and puffy.
      Title: Cheese Snacks
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese, Syd's book
   Servings:  1
  1 1/2 c  Flour
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Cayenne Pepper
    1/4 lb Butter
      1 c  Grated Cheese
  Sift the first 3 ingredients together.  Work in butter and cheese.  Form
  into a long roll.  Chill and slice.  Bake in a 350øF oven for 12 to 15
  minutes.  May be kept in refrigerator, sliced and baked as needed.  From:
  Syd's Cookbook.
      Title: Cheese Snack Rounds
 Categories: Cheese, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      1    Jar (5oz) Sharp pasteurized
           -process cheese spread
    1/2 c  Bisquick baking mix
      2 tb Toasted sesame seed
  FROM THE KITCHEN OF: Gary & Margie Hartford [Eugene, Oregon]
  Mix cheese spread and baking mix. shape into a roll, about 1 inch in
  diameter, on lightly floured cloth covered board. Roll in sesame seed,
  pressing lightly if necessary. Wrap and refrigerate until firm, at least 2
  hours.
  Heat oven to 375 degrees F. Cut roll into 1/4 inch slices. Place on lightly
  greased cookie sheet. Bake until golden brown, 8 to 10 minutes. About 42
  appetizers.
  From: The recipe files of General Mills Inc. (1981) Shared 7/93
      Title: Cheese Straws
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings: 20
      1 lb Puff pastry
    3/4 c  Parmesan; grated
      1.  Roll out puff pastry dough into a rectangle 20 by 24 inches.
  Sprinkle half of the Parmesan evenly over the dough and gently press cheese
  into the dough with the rolling pin.
      2.  Fold the dough in half crosswise, roll it out again to 20 by 24
  inches, and sprinkle on remaining cheese.
      3.  Using a sharp thin knife, cut the dough into 1/3-inch strips. Take
  each strip by its end and twist until evenly corkscrewed.  Lay the twists
  of dough on an ungreased baking sheet, arranged so they are just touching
  each other; this will prevent untwisting.
      4.  Set the baking sheet in the middle of a preheated 350F oven and
  bake until the straws are crisp, puffed brown, 15 to 20 minutes.
      5.  Remove from the oven, cool for 5 minutes, then cut apart with a
  sharp knife.  Finish cooling the straws on a rtack, then store them in an
  airtight tin or plastic bag until serving time.  They will stay fresh for
  about 1 week. About 20 straws. Arrange a basketful on the bar when
  entertaining and watch them disappear! Source: The Silver Palate Cookbook
      Title: Cheese Stuffed Pineapple
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings:  2
      1    Pineapple, ripe
      1 pk Cream cheese (8-oz)
    1/2 c  Well-aged Cheddar, grated
      1 tb Chives, minced
    1/4 ts Dry mustard
      1 tb White rum
    1/4 ts Salt (optional)
  Cut off the top of the pineapple far enough down so that a wide rim is
  formed. Scoop out the fruit and chop it fine. Blend together the cheeses,
  chives, 1-1/2 cups of the chopped pineapple, mustard, rum, and salt. Pile
  mixture into pineapple shell. Serve with Triscuits, toast rounds or
  squares. Makes about 2 cups.
  From: A Salute to Cheese, by Betty Wason, Hawthorn Books, Inc., 1966.
  Shared by: June Hoffman, 8/93
      Title: Cheese Triangles
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese, Eggs
   Servings: 20
      1 c  Shredded Jack Cheese, Or:
           Cottage Cheese
      2    Eggs, Well Beaten
    1/2 c  Chopped Parsley
      1 ts Salt
     10    Sheets Phyllo Pastry
      1 c  Unsalted Butter, Melted
  Combine cheese, eggs, parsley and salt and mix well. Cut each sheet of
  phyllo dough in halves, working with one sheet at a time. Keep rest of
  pastry covered with damp towel until ready to use. Brush with butter and
  fold each half twice vertically to form narrow strip. Place about 1
  tablespoon cheese mixture at one end of each strip. Fold one corner across
  filling to form triangle. Brush with more butter. Continue folding in
  triangles, flag-style, and brushing with butter. Place triangles on baking
  sheets and bake at 350øF until pastry is golden, about 15 to 20 minutes.
  (C) 1992 The Los Angeles Times
      Title: Cheesy F. B. I. Man Safe Crackers
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
    1/2 c  Butter
      2 tb Tomato juice
      2 c  Grated cheddar cheese
      1 c  Sifted all-purpose flour
    3/4 c  Chopped pecans
    1/4 ts Red pepper
    1/2 ts Salt
      In a large bowl cream together the butter and tomato juice. Add the
  remaining ingredients. Devide the mixture in half and roll into 2 rolls
  about 12 inces long. Chill overnight.
      Cut the rolls into slices about 1/4-inch thick and arrange on an
  ungreased cookie sheet. Bake in a 350~ oven for 10 to 12 mintues.
    Serves 6 to 8.
  Source: Aunt Bee's Mayberry Cookbook. Contributor: Cordelia
  Kelly-Greensboro, NC
      Title: Cheesy Mushroom Canapes
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  4
      2 tb Butter
      4 oz Mushrooms, coarsely chopped
      4 ts All-purpose flour
      2 c  Shredded cheddar cheese
      1 ts Mustard powder
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
           Fresh ground pepper to taste
      8    Slices French bread (3/4")
      2 tb Chopped fresh parsley
           Paprika
           Fresh parsley sprigs (opt)
  In a saucepan, melt butter. Add mushrooms and cook gently 2 minutes. Add
  flour and stir into mushroom mixture.
  Add cheese, mustard and Worcestershire sauce. Stir well and heat through
  gently 2 minutes or until mixture begins to melt. Remove from heat and
  season to taste with pepper.
  Preheat broiler. Toast bread on one side only. Spread cheese and mushroom
  mixture on untoasted sides. Broil in preheated broiler 3-4 minutes or until
  melted and bubbling. Cut slices in half and sprinkle liberally with parsley
  and paprika. Garnish with parsley sprigs, if desired, and serve hot.
      Title: Cheesy Potato Skins
 Categories: Cheese, Entertain, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      3 md Baking potatoes
           Vegetable oil
           Seasoned salt
      1 c  Shredded cheddar cheese
      6 sl Bacon, cooked and crumbled
  sour cream, jalapenos, and picante sauce optional
  Preheat oven to 400F.
  Scrub potatoes thoroughly and rub skin with oil.  Bake for 1 hour or until
  done.  Allow potatoes to cool to touch.  Cut in half lengthwise.  Carefully
  scoop out pulp, leaving 1/4- to 1/8- inch shells.  (Save pulp for another
  recipe).  Cut skins in half crosswise and deep fry in hot oil for 32
  minutes until lightly browned.  Drain on paper towels.  Place skins on a
  baking sheet. Sprinkle with salt, cheese, and bacon.  Place under broiler
  until cheese melts.  Serve with sour cream, jalapenos, and picante sauce.
  Yield:  1 dozen small servings
  From:  "Celebrate San Antonio - A Cookbook" by the San Antonio Junior
  Forum, 1986.  ISBN 0-961917-0-0 Posted by: Karin Brewer, Cooking Echo, 8/92
      Title: Cheesy Vegetable Spread
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese, Spreads
   Servings:  6
      4 oz Shredded Farmer Cheese
      3 tb Plain Yogurt
      1 ts Lemon Juice
      1 ts Soy Sauce
    1/4 c  Chopped Apple
    1/4 c  Chopped Carrot
      2 tb Finely Chopped Celery
      2 tb Chopped Pecans
      2 tb Currants
      1 tb Toasted Wheat Germ
    1/2 ts Curry Powder
  In food processor, process cheese, yogurt, lemon juice, and soy sauce until
  smooth.  Stir in remaining ingredients. Use as a spread on crackers, whole
  wheat bread, or pita crisps, or stuffed into pita pockets.  Makes 1-1/2
  cups. Variations: - substitute shredded Cheddar for the farmer cheese. -
  mayonnaise may be substituted for the yogurt. - Chop veggies small, spread
  mixture on split pitas, and place under preheated broiler for about 3
  minutes. - serve as accompaniment to soups or salads. - use as a sandwich
  spread Spread may be made in advance, and refrigerated 3-4 days.
      Title: Chesapeake Bay Crab Cakes
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  4
      1 ts Sharp prepared mustard
      1 tb Freshly squeezed lemon juice
      6 tb Olive oil, divided
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
      1 lb Lump crabmeat, picked clean
    1/2 c  Dry, unflavored bread crumbs
      1 pn Of cayenne pepper
      4 tb Butter
  Chesapeake Bay Crab Cakes
  Parsley, lemon wedges, tartar sauce as desired
  Using an electric blender or wire whisk, beat together mustard, lemon juice
  and egg until thoroughly combined.  While  beating vigorously, gradually
  pour 4 Tbs of olive oil  into  the  egg mixture in a thin stream. When
  smooth and creamy, stir in salt and pepper.
  Gently fold in crabmeat, then bread crumbs and cayenne  pepper. Shape into
  8 patties, each about a half-inch thick. They  will want to fall apart, but
  that's the idea of a good  crab  cake. You want only enough non-crab stuff
  to just barely bind them.
  Melt  butter together with 2 Tbs of olive oil in  skillet  over medium
  heat.  When butter sizzles (but before it burns!) gently ease the crab
  cakes into the skillet  to  cook.   When  well browned (2 to 3 minutes),
  gently turn and  cook  other  side. Drain on paper towels. Serve
  immediately.
  Makes 4 main-course servings, 8 appetizers
  From:  Captain's Galley, Main St., Chrisfield, Md.
  Cheryl
      Title: Chick Pea & Tahini Dip
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      8 oz Soaked chick peas
      2 ea Lemons, juiced
      2 ea Crushed garlic cloves
      5 tb Olive oil
      2 tb Tahini
           Salt & pepper
           Water
           Paprika & parsley
  Drain chick peas, cover with water in a pot & cook for 60 minutes.  Drain &
  cool.  Place in a processor with lemon juice, garlic, oil, tahini & salt &
  pepper.  Blend till smooth adding more water if needed.  You should have a
  thick paste.  Check seasonings.  Garnish with paprika & parsley.  Serve
  with pita bread.
  "Entertaining with Cranks"
      Title: Chicken and Ham Mousse
 Categories: Appetizers, Poultry
   Servings:  8
     10    -minutes preparation time
      3    -minutes cooking time
      2    -hours chill time
---------------------------INGREDIENTS--------------------------------
      1 tb Butter
      4    Scallions; chopped
      2 c  Chicken stock
      1 pk Unflavored gelatin
      1 c  Chicken; chopped cooked
      1 c  Ham; chopped, cooked
      1 tb Madeira
      1 c  Heavy cream
  1.  In a medium-size saucepan, melt butter over medium heat.  Add scallions
  and cook 2 mintues.  Stir in stock and gelatin.  Simmer, stirring, until
  gelatin dissolves.  Pour into a food processro.
  2.  Add chicken,ham and madeira to processor.  Process until smooth.  Pour
  into a bowl, cover, and chill until almost set.
  3.  Meanwhile, beat cream until stiff.  Fold whipped cream into chicken and
  ham mixture and pack into a lightly greased 6-cup mold.  Cover and
  refrigerate at least 2 hours, or overnight, until set.
  From:  365 Ways to Cook Chicken
      Title: Chicken Canapes
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  1
      8 oz Philadelphia cream cheese
      4 oz Sour cream
      2 cn Underwood chunky chicken
           Chopped pecans
  Mix contents, keep chilled.  Just before serving, spread on butter
  crackers.
      Title: Chicken Deviled Eggs
 Categories: Chicken, Eggs, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      6    Hard cooked eggs
    1/2 c  Finely chopped cooked
           -chicken
      3 tb Mayonnaise
      1 tb Grated onion
      1 ts Dijon mustard
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
    3/4 ts Hot pepper sauce, to taste
      1 tb Minced parsely
           Paprika, for garnish
  1. Cut eggs lengthwise in half. Remove yolks & place in a small bowl.
  2. Marsh yolks w/ a fork. Add chicken, mayonnaise, onion, Dijon mustard,
  dry mustard, hot sauce & parsely. Blend well. Stuff egg whites w/ yolk
  mixture. Sprinkle tops w/ paprika to garnish. Cover & refrigerate until
  serving time.
      Title: Chicken Dumplings with Orange Dipping Sauce
 Categories: Chicken, Dips
   Servings:  6
      2 c  Shredded Nappa cabbage
    1/4 c  Minced shiitake mushrooms
    1/2 lb Ground chicken
      1    Green onion, minced
      1 ts Ginger root, minced
      3 tb Water
    1/2 ts Salt
     30    Round wonton wrappers-3 1/2"
           Nonstick cooking spray
  1 1/4 c  Chicken broth
    1/3 c  Orange marmalade
      3 tb Rice vinegar
  In nonstick skiller, over medium-high heat, saute cabbage and mushrooms for
  2 mintues, cool.  Stir in ground chicken, green onion, ginger, water and
  salt.  Place 1 tsp filling on each wrapper.  Moisten edges with water and
  join over filling.
  (Note: Make dumplings in advance. Cover with damp cloth and plastic wrap
         and chill until cooking time.)
  With cooking spray, grease skillet.  Over medium heat, brown dumplings,
  half at a time, 6 minutes.  Turn.  Over medium-high heat, add 1/2 cup
  broth.  Cover and cook 3 minutes, until broth evaporates.
  For sauce, blend marmalade, vinegar and remaining broth.
  6 servings - about 1 cup sauce
  Per serving, 205 calories, 13 g protein, 34 g carbohydrate, 2 g fat, 31 mg
  cholesterol, 388 mg sodium.
  From McCall's, July 1991   -   Grandma Sheila (Exner)
      Title: Chicken Fondue in Ginger Broth
 Categories: Chicken, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      4 c  Of chicken stock
    2/3 c  White wine or 1/4 cup (50
           -ml) cider of 150 ml of rice
           -vinegar
      2    Lemon slices
      2 lg Cloves garlic, minced
      2 tb Minced gingerroot
      2 ts Granulated sugar
           * Chicken and Vegetable
           -Tray:
      1 lb Boneless, skinless chicken
           -breasts
    1/2 bn Broccoli
      1 sm Yellow summer squash or
           -zucchini
      2 c  Torn Swiss chard or romaine
           -lettuce
      1    Sweet recd pepper or green
           -pepper
    1/4 lb Mushrooms
           Hot Chili Sauce (recipe
           -follows)
           Garlic Sauce (recipe
           -follows)
  * Fondu Cooking Stock: Directions: Fondue Cooking Stock: In fondue pot,
  electric skillet or electric wok, combine chicken stock, white wine, lemon
  slices, garlic, ginger and sugar. Just before serving, heat to simmer.
  Chicken and Vegetable Tray: Cut chicken into 3/4 inch pieces; place on
  serving platter.  Cut broccoli, summer squash, Swiss chard and sweet pepper
  into bite-sized pieces; arrange along with mushrooms on a separate platter.
  Using long fondue forks, spear chicken or vegetables; dip into simmering
  fondue broth to cook.  Cook chicken pieces until no longer pink inside, and
  vegetables until tender-crisp.  Serve with Hot Chilli Sauce and Garlic
  Sauce for dipping.
  Garlic Sauce:
  (For a variation, substitute chopped fresh basil or coriander to taste for
  the garlic and reduce the parsley to 1 tbsp.)
  * 1/2 cup light sour cream or low-fat yogurt or a mixture of both. * 2
  cloves garlic, minced. * 1/4 cup of chopped fresh parsley.
  In a small bowl combine sour cream, garlic and parsley.
  Hot Chili Sauce:
  * 1/3 cup water * 2 tbsp. lemon juice or lime juice * 1 tbsp low-sodium soy
  sauce * 1 tsp granulated sugar * 1/4 tsp hot pepper flakes
  In a small bowl, combine water, lemon or lime juice, soy sauce, sugar and
  hot pepper flakes.
      Title: Chicken Fritters
 Categories: Poultry, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
     20    -minutes preparation time
     10    -minutes cooking time
---------------------------INGREDIENTS--------------------------------
      2 c  Chicken; finely chopped
           -cooked
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Mincd fresh parsley
      1 tb Lemon juice
  1 1/4 c  Flour
      2 ts Baking powder
      1    Egg; beaten
    2/3 c  Milk
           Oil; for frying
--------------------------HONEY MUSTARD-------------------------------
      1 c  Dry mustard
      1 c  White wine vinegar
      2    Egg; beaten
    3/4 c  Honey
    1/4 ts Salt
  1.  In a large bowl, toss chicken with salt, parsley, and lemon juice. Set
  aside for 15 minutes.  In another large bowl, combine flour, baking powder,
  egg, and milk.  Stir to blend well.
  2.  Add flour mixture to chicken and mix well.
  3.  In a large frying pan, heat 1 inch of oil to 375F.  Drop batter by
  tablespoons into hot oil and fry in batches without crowding for 2 minutes,
  until golden brown.  Drain on paper towels and serve with honey mustard for
  dipping.
  Honey mustard directions
  1.  Combine mustard and vinegar in a small bowl and set aside for 30
  minutes or overnight.
  2.  In a double boiler over medium heat, stir together mustard-vinegar
  mixture, eggs, honey, and salt.  Cook about 20 minutes until thickened,
  stirring often.
  From:  365 Ways to Cook Chicken
      Title: Chicken Liver and Anchovy Savory
 Categories: Chicken, Appetizers
   Servings:  3
      4 tb Butter
      6    Chicken livers
    1/2 ts Pepper
      2    Anchovy fillets
    1/2 c  Stock
      3 sl Buttered toast (edged,
           -trimmed and cut in 1/2)
      2 tb Bread crumbs
      2 tb Gratd Parmesan cheese
  Melt butter in skillet.  Saute chicken livers, chop the livers with pepper
  and anchovy fillets until well blended.  Return mixture to skillet and add
  stock.  Cook over medium heat 5 minutes, stirring frequently. Place mixture
  on toast.  Sprinkle bread crumbs and cheese. Place under broiler for 1
  minute to brown.  Serves 3.  Anita Douglas
  From: Paul Kimball Cooking Capers Shared By: Pat Stockett
      Title: Chicken Liver Pate
 Categories: Appetizers, Poultry
   Servings:  8
     10    -minutes preparation time
     10    -minutes cooking time
      3    -hours chill time
---------------------------INGREDIENTS--------------------------------
      6 tb Butter
      2 md Onions; finely chopped
      1    Garlic clove; crushed
      1 lb Chicken livers, trimmed
           -halved
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Thyme
    1/4 ts Tarragon
    1/8 ts Pepper; freshly ground
      2 tb Cognac; or brandy
  1.  In a large frying pan, melt 2 T of the butter over moderately low heat.
  Add onions and cook until onion i ssoft, about 5 minutes.  Add garlic and
  cook for 1 minute longer.  Transfer to a food processor or blender.
  2.  Melt remaining 4 T of butter in the same pan.  Add livers and saute
  over medium-high heat, tossing, until browned outside but still rosy
  inside, 3 to 5 mintues.  Sprinkle withk salt, thyme, tarragon, pepper, and
  Cognac.  Cook, scraping up any browned bits from the bottom of the pan, for
  1 minute.  Scrap liver and pan juices into food processor.  Puree until
  smooth.  Scrape into a serving bowl or crock.  Let cool to room temperater.
  Cover and refrigerate until cool, several hours or overnight.
  From:  365 Ways to Cook Chicken.
      Title: Chicken Pate
 Categories: Appetizers, Chicken, Cheese
   Servings:  6
  1 1/2 c  Minced Chicken Breast
      8 oz Neufchatel Cheese, Softened
      3 tb Chopped Onion
      2 tb Dry Sherry
      2 tb Mayonnaise (Diet)
      2 ts Lemon Juice
    1/4 ts Hot Sauce
    1/8 ts Ground Nutmeg
      1 ds Paprika
  Combine chicken (which has been finely chopped), Neufchatel, onion, sherry,
  mayonnaise, lemon juice, hot sauce, and nutmeg in container of electric
  blender; process until smooth. Transfer mixture to a 2 cup mold coated with
  cooking spray (Pam). Cover, and chill overnight.  Unmold onto a serving
  plate. Sprinkle with paprika. Garnish with parsley sprigs, if desired.
  Serve with Melba toast rounds or unsalted crackers. Yield: 1 3/4 cups (28
  calories per Tablespoon.) PER SERVING (1 T): 28 calories, 2.8 g fat, .3 g
  carbohydrates, 0 g fiber, 10 g cholesterol, 30 mg sodium, 27 mg potassium.
      Title: Chicken Puffs
 Categories: Dips, Appetizers, Chicken, Cheese
   Servings:  4
      2 tb Butter
    1/4 c  Flour
      1    Egg
    1/4 c  Swiss Chesse (Shredded)
      2 c  Chicken (Cooked, Fine Chop)
    1/4 c  Celery (Finely Chopped)
      2 tb Pimento (Chopped)
      2 tb Dry White Wine
    1/4 c  Mayonnaise
  Melt butter in 1/4 cup boiling water.  Add flour and a dash of salt; stir
  vigorously.  Cook and stir until mixture forms a ball that doesn't
  separate.  Remove from heat and cool slightly.  Add egg; beat vigorously
  until smooth.  Stir in cheese.  Drop dough onto greased baking sheet, using
  1 level teaspoon dough for each puff.  Bake at 400øF for 20 minutes. Remove
  from oven; cool and split.  Combine remaining ingredients, 1/2 t salt and
  dash of pepper.  Fill each puff with 2 teaspoons.
      Title: Chicken Puffs Amandine
 Categories: Appetizers, Chicken
   Servings:  6
    1/2 c  Canned chicken broth
    1/4 ts Almond extract
      1 cn Devil chicken spread
      3 tb Diced toasted almond
           -optional
      2    Eggs
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Sifted flour
    1/4 c  Butter
  Heat oven to 450 degrees. Bring broth to boil over moderate heat. Add
  butter and salt. Stir until butter melts. Reduce heat. Add flour all at
  once. Stir vigorously until mixture can be formed into a ball. Remove from
  heat and add eggs, one at a time, beating thoroughly after each one.
  Continue beating until smooth and shiny. Stir in chicken spread, almonds
  and extract. BLend well. Drop by small teaspoonfuls onto greased cookies
  sheets and bake 10-12 minutes until golden. Can be made ahead and reheated
  at 350 degrees for 5-7 minutes. Serve warm.
      Title: Chicken-Cheese Canapes
 Categories: Chicken, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      2 c  Chopped cooked chicken
    3/4 c  Mayonnaise
      2    Scallions, minced
    1/2 ts Dried basil
    1/4 ts Dried thyme
    1/4 ts Freshly ground pepper
    1/2 c  Grated Swiss cheese
    1/2 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
      4    English muffins, split
  1. Preheat oven to 350ø. In a medium size bowl, combine chicken, mayonnaise
  & scallions. Blend in basil, thyme & pepper. Add Swiss cheese & 2 tbsp. of
  the Parmesan; blend well.
  2. Spread chicken mixture over English muffin 1/2's, dividing evenly.
  Sprinkle w/ remaining Parmesan cheese. Arange on a foil lined baking sheet
  & bake about 10 minutes until browned on top.
  3. Cut muffins into 1/4's & serve hot.
      Title: Chili and Corn Relish
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  1
      2    Anaheim and yellow chili
           -peppers
    1/3 c  Canned corn, drained
    1/3 c  Chopped red onion
    1/8 ts Ground coriander
      1 ts Lime juice
  If you like an assertive chili-based relish, try this flavorful one on
  nearly any white-fleshed fish (whole, steaks or fillets). Like it hotter?
  Add some more chilies!
  Grill chilies 4 to 5 inches from hot coals until soft and the skin
  ruptures.  Let cool slightly; rub skin off.  Seed and cut into a coarse
  dice.  Add remaining ingredients and let sit while fish cooks.  May be made
  the day before.  Serve cold or at room temperature.
  Makes 1 cup.
  Per Tbsp: 8 cal./.3 g prot./2 g carbo./0 g sat./0 g mono./0 g poly./0 g
  om-3/0 mg chol./63 mg sdm.
      Title: Chili Cheese Cornsticks
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
  1 1/4 c  Yellow cornmeal
      1 lg Egg
    1/2 c  Flour
      1 c  Milk
      2 tb Sugar
    1/2 c  Shredded Cheddar
      1 tb Baking powder
      2 tb Chopped green chilies
  Beat egg, milk and 1/4 c. vegetable oil.  Add dry ingredi- ents, stirring
  only to mix.  Toss in cheese and chilies.  Bake in greased pans at 425
  degrees for 15 minutes.
      Title: Chili Cheese Roll
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings: 14
      1    8 oz package American
           -cheese, grated
      1    3 oz package cream cheese
    1/8 ts Garlic powder
    1/4 c  Chopped pecans
      2 tb Chili powder
  ** %%%%% CHILI CHEESE ROLL %%%%% **
  Have cheese at room temperature; mix both until well blended.  Stir in
  garlic powder and pecans. Form into a roll about 10 inches long. Spread the
  chili powder on waxed paper and coat the outside of cheese with the chili
  powder by rolling over the waxed paper. Chill. Slice and serve with
  crackers or Melba toast. Makes forty 1/4 inch thick slices.
  Origin: Spices of the World Cookbook, by McCormicks Sent by: Sharon
  Stevens.
      Title: Chili Con Carrot
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings:  6
    1/2 c  Carrot, Diced
      2 c  Sour Cream
    1/2 c  Yellow Onion, Diced
      1 ts Cumin, Ground
      2 ts Dried Parsley, Crushed *
      1 tb Dijon Mustard
      1 tb Chili Powder
  * 2 T of fresh parsley can be used in place of the dried.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Combine all of the ingredients, blending thoroughly.  Cover and chill.
  Makes about 3 cups of dip SUGGESTED DIPPERS: Brussels Sprouts, Salami,
  Cocktail Rye Bread
      Title: Chili Con Queso
 Categories: Appetizers, Microwave, Cheese
   Servings:  2
    1/4 c  Chopped Onion
      1 ts Butter Or Margarine
    1/2 c  American Cheese Spread
      1 md Tomato *
      2 tb Chili Peppers **
           Dash Hot Pepper Sauce
           Tortilla Or Corn Chips
  * Tomato should be peeled, seeded, and chopped. ** Chili Peppers should be
  canned, diced, green chili peppers.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  In a small nonmetal bowl micro-cook the chopped onion and butter or
  margarine, uncovered, on 100% power for 1 1/2 to 2 minutes or till the
  onion is tender but not brown.  Stir in the American cheese spread.
  Micro-cook, uncovered, on 100% power for 2 to 3 minutes or till the cheese
  spread is melted, stirring occasionally.  Stir in chopped tomato, green
  chili peppers, and bottled hot pepper sauce, if desired.  Micro-cook the
  cheese mixture, uncovered, on 100% power for 30 seconds to 1 minute more or
  till the cheese mixture is heated through.  Serve immediately with tortilla
  or corn chips.  Makes about 1 cup of dip.
      Title: Chilied Red Bean Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips, Beans
   Servings:  6
      2 tb Corn oil
      1    Garlic clove, crushed
      1    Onion, finely chopped
      1    Fresh green chili, seeded,
           -finely chopped
      1 ts Hot chili powder
      1 cn Red kidney beans (15 oz)
    1/2 c  Shredded Cheddar cheese
           Salt to taste
           Thin slivers fresh red and
           -green chilies
           Fresh parsley sprig (opt)
           Tortilla chips
  Heat oil in a skillet. Add garlic, onion, green chili and chili powder and
  cook gently 4 minutes.
  Drain kidney beans, reserving juice. Reserve 3 tablespoons beans; process
  remainder in a blender or food processor to a puree. Add to onion mixture
  and stir in 2 tablespoons of reserved bean liquid; mix well.
  Stir in reserved beans and cheese. Cook gently about 2 minutes, stirring
  until cheese melts. Add salt and mix well. If mixture becomes too thick,
  add a little more reserved bean liquid. Spoon into a serving dish and
  garnish with chilies and parsley sprig, if desired. Serve warm with
  tortilla chips.
      Title: Chinese Laundry Cafe's Feta and Garlic Pate
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  1
      2    Garlic cloves; minced
      4    Anchovy fillets; minced
      6 tb Butter; softened
     10 oz Cream cheese; 300 g.
      6 oz Feta cheese; 175 g.
    1/4 c  Sour cream
      1 tb Chives, fresh; chopped -OR-
      1 tb -Green onions
           Tabasco sauce; few drops
      1 pn -Pepper; freshly ground
  "This funky little cafe is a regular hangout for Queen's university
  students. Lucky students." this recipe comes from the owner, Ann Marie
  Rousseau. Combine all ingredients in food processor until very smooth and
  creamy. Spread on crackers, bread or bagels. Also terrific in sandwiches.
  MAKES: 2 CUPS SOURCE: Bonnie Stern's "Quick Cuisine"column in the Toronto
  Star posted by Anne MacLellan
      Title: Chinese Style Spareribs
 Categories: Appetizers, Pork
   Servings: 12
    1/2 c  Butter Or Margarine
      1 md Clove Garlic *
      1    Envelope Soup Mix **
     16 oz Tomato Puree
    1/2 c  Brown Sugar
    1/4 c  Imported Soy Sauce ***
    1/4 c  White Vinegar
    1/4 c  Chili Sauce
      5 lb Spareribs ****
  * Garlic Clove should be finely chopped. ** You can use the following **
  You can use the French Onion or Regular Onion soup mixes in this recipe.
  *** For best taste use the imported soy sauce. **** Country style spareribs
  can be used, but baby back ribs are the best.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Preheat oven to 375øF.  In large saucepan, melt butter and cook garlic with
  onion recipe soup mix over medium heat until garlic is golden.  Stir in
  tomato puree, sugar, soy sauce, vinegar and chili sauce.  Bring to a boil,
  then simmer, stirring occasionally, 15 minutes.  Meanwhile, in a large
  aluminium foil-lined baking pan or broiler rack, arrange spareribs, meaty
  side up, and bake 20 minutes.  Brush spareribs generously with sauce, then
  continue baking, meaty side up, brushing occasionally with remaining sauce,
  50 minutes, or until spareribs are done.  Makes 6 main servings.
      Title: Chorizo & Rice Wrapped in Cabbage Leaves
 Categories: Pork, Appetizers
   Servings:  8
    1/3 c  Rice, uncooked (not
           Converted)
      1 c  Water
    1/4 ts Salt
      4    Cabbage leaves, large
    1/4 lb Chorizo, dry or pepperoni
      1    Onions, green, (bunch)
      1    Cucumber, medium
      3 tb Oil, olive
      1 tb Parsley, minced
      1 ts Garlic, minced
    1/4 ts Pepper sauce, hot
           Salt
  In saucepan, combine rice, water and salt.  Bring to boil, cover and simmer
  30 minutes.  Turn off heat and let sit 10 minutes.  Uncover and cool
  slightly.  (Rice will be sticky).  Cut chorizo and cucumber into long,
  1/4-inch wide by 6-inch long matchsticks.  Cut green onions into 6-inch
  lenghts.  Bring large pot of water to boil; add cabbage leaves. Cook 30
  seconds or until leaves are softened.  rinse in cold wter; drain on paper
  towels.  trim each cabbage leaf to a 5X6-inch rectangle.
  Spoon 1/4 cup rice along the 6-inch length of each cabbage leaf, not far
  from edge.  Arrange 4 rows of chorizo sticks (using extra pieces, if
  necessary, to make them 6-inch long), 2 green onion pieces and 1 cucumber
  stick over rice, and gently press into rice.  Roll up cabbage leaf tightly,
  brushing ends with oil to seal.  Gently squeeze roll so that filling holds
  together.  Cut each roll into 1-inch pieces.  Arrange pieces cut-side down
  on serving dish.  In small bowl, combine oil, parsley, garlic, hot pepper
  sauce and salt to taste.  Spoon over chorizo rollsa dn serve at room
  temperature.
      Title: Christmas Crab Quesadillas
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
   Servings:  8
    1/4 lb Butter or margarine,
           Divided
      1    Whole shallot (or 2 or 3
           Green onion), finely
           Minced
      1 ts Chopped fresh chives
    1/2 lb Lump crab meat, picked over
           To remove shells
      2 tb Sour cream
      1 ts Chopped fresh dill
           Salt, to taste
           Hot pepper flakes, to taste
      6    10-inch flour tortillas at
           Room temperature
    3/4 c  Grated Monteray Jack cheese
----------------------------GARNISHES---------------------------------
    1/2 c  (each) finely chopped red
           And green bell peppers
           Radicchio leaves, 3 per
           Plate
           Salsa
           Quacamole
           Sour cream
  Preheat the oven to 375F.
     Reserve 2 tablespoons of the butter.  Place the remaining butter in a
  sauce pan and melt over low heat.  Add the shallots and chives.  Saute
  until translucent.  Remove from the heat and add the crab, sour cream,
  dill, salt and hot pepper flakes.  Mix well.
     Spread the crab mixture on one half of each tortilla.  Top with a
  sprinkling of the grated chese.  Fold the tortillas in half and place them
  on a baking sheet.  Brush the tops of the tortillas with the reserved
  butter.
     Bake in the preheated oven for about 5 minutes or until the tops are
  golden brown.  Let rest for 5 minutes before cutting into quarters.
     Place 3 small radicchio leaves on each plate.  Fill one with sour cream,
  one with quacamole, and one with salsa.  Place three triangles of
  quesadilla on each plate.  Sprinkle with a confetti of chopped green and
  red bell peppers.
  Serves 8.
     [The Baltimore Sun; Dec 11, 1991] Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Chunky Chopped Chicken Liver
 Categories: Chicken, Appetizers
   Servings:  8
      2 lb Chicken liver
      4 lb Onions (3 giant); sliced and
           -quartered
      2    Cloves garlic; minced
      3 tb Butter
      6 tb Vegetable oil
    1/4 c  Water
      4    Eggs; boiled
  Saut onions on a medium heat with garlic, 2 tb oil, 2 tb butter and water
  until browned. Remove and set aside.
  Saut chicken livers with 4 tb oil, 1 tb butter and some of the onions until
  browned. Livers should be rare and not overcooked.
  In a mixing bowl mash cooked livers and eggs into small chunks. Add onions
  and mix together adding small amount of oil if needed. Salt to taste and
  serve.
  Source: Eric Maurer, family secret
      Title: Chunky Kidney Bean Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips, Beans
   Servings:  2
  1 1/2 c  Kidney Beans, Cooked
    1/4 c  Sour Cream
      1 ts Lemon Juice
      1 ts Hot Sauce
      1 tb Cumin, Ground
      1 tb Coriander, Ground
  Mash the beans by hand, using a fork or the back of a wooden spoon.  Blend
  in the sour cream, mixing until smooth.  Add all the other ingredients and
  blend well.  Cover and chill.  Makes about 1 3/4 cups of dip. SUGGESTED
  DIPPERS:  Polish Sausage, Celery, Corn Crackers
      Title: Chutney Cheese Toasts
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      1 ts Butter
      4    Rashers bacon, cut in half,
           -rind removed
      1    Onion, sliced
      1    Tomato thinly sliced
      4 sl Cheese
      4    Pieces toast, buttered 1
           -side and spread with fruit
           -chutney
  1.  melt butter, add next two ingredients, saute until onion is tender and
  bacon is golden.
  2.  drain well. arrange tomato over toast, top with bacon and onion and
  slice of cheese.
  3.  place under hot grill until cheese has melted and becomes golden brown.
  serve hot.
      Title: Cindy Black's Garlic Mousse
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      4    Heads garlic
      1 tb Olive oil
      2 c  Whipping cream
           Salt
           White pepper to taste
      2 tb Chives, chopped (optional)
  Rub garlic heads with olive oil. Wrap individually in aluminum foil and
  roast in 375 degree oven for about 45 minutes.
  Remove roasted garlic from oven and squeeze the cooked garlic from from
  each clove. Puree softened cloves in food processor.
  Whip cream until soft peaks form. Fold whipped cream into garlic puree.
  Season to taste with salt and white pepper. Add chives if desired.
  Recipe from Cindy Black's Restaurant, La Jolla, California
      Title: Clam and Olive Dip
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  6
      1 cn Black olives, drained
      1 cn Chopped or minced clams,
           -drained
      1 pt Sour cream
           Salt
           Powdered garlic
           Cayenne pepper
  Open can of olives.  Eat a handful, just to make sure.  Eat a few more.  As
  long as you leave at least half the can, you've got enough.  Chop them up.
  Add the chopped olives to the rest of the ingredients, stir, and chill for
  2 hours before serving.
  Quantities on the spices are left to you.
  Btw, if you have never tried cream cheese and chopped olive sandwiches, let
  me recommend them.  Soften a package of cream cheese, add small can chopped
  olives and a teaspoon or so of lemon juice.  Stir well and spread.  Gutsy
  eaters add turkey.
      Title: Clam Stuffed Mushroom Caps
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
    1/2 c  Butter
      2 lb Mushrooms, 1-1/2" to 2" in
           -diameter
      1 c  Minced clams, with liquid
      1    Clove garlic, minced
    1/2 c  Dried bread crumbs
    1/3 c  Parsley, chopped
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Ground black pepper
           Lemon juice
  Melt butter in sauce pan.  Remove and dice mushrooms stems.  Dip caps in
  butter and place, rounded side down, on a rack on a cookie sheet.  Drain
  clams and reserve liquid.  In melted butter, saute mushrooms stems and
  garlic.  Add clam liquid and simmer until mushroom stems are tender. Remove
  from heat and stir in remaining ingredients.  Spoon mixture into mushroom
  caps.  Broil about 6 " from heat for about 8 minutes, until mushrooms are
  tender and tops are lightly browned.  Sprinkle a few drops of lemon juice
  on each and serve hot.
  From: The Clam Lovers Cook Book Shared By: Pat Stockett
      Title: Clams Casino
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
     24    Cherrystone clams
      1 lg Garlic clove, minced
      4 tb Green pepper, chopped
      8 tb Butter
      1 tb Lemon juice
      6 tb Seasoned bread crumbs
  Preheat oven to 450f.  Open clams and discard top shell.  Place clams in a
  shallow baking pan. In a saucepan, melt 4 Tbsp. butter and saute the garlic
  and green pepper for 2 - 3 minutes. Add remaining butter, lemon juice, and
  bread crumbs, mixing thoroughly. Place 1 teas. of mixture on top of each
  clam and bake for 10 minutes.
      Title: Classic Cream Cheese-Salsa Spread
 Categories: Dips, Condiments
   Servings:  1
      1 pk Regular or light cream
           -cheese (8 oz)
           Pace Thick & Chunky Salsa
           Chopped fresh cilantro (opt)
  Place cream cheese on rimmed plate; let stand at room temperature about 30
  minutes to soften. Pour Pace Thick & Chunky Salsa over and around cream
  cheese. Garnish with cilantro, if desired. Serve with vegetable dippers,
  crackers or chips.
      Title: Classic Pace Con Queso Dip
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  1
      8 oz Pace Picante Sauce
           -OR
      8 oz Pace Thick & Chunky Salsa
      1 lb Velveeta cheese food, cubed
  In a saucepan or microwave-safe bowl, combine Pace and Velveeta cheese
  food. Cook over low heat 10 minutes or microwave at HIGH 5 minutes - just
  until cheese is melted, stirring occasionally. Surround with chips or
  Christmas-colored red and green pepper rings or strips and, if you're so
  inclined, sprinkle the dip with chopped fresh cilantro for flavor and color
  contrast.
      Title: Classy Mustard Garlic Mayonnaise Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings:  4
      1 ts Dijon Mustard
    1/2 ts Garlic Powder
      1 c  Mayonnaise
      1 ts Capers
      1 ts Fresh Tarragon, Chopped, OR
      1 ts Dried Tarragon, Crushed
      1 ts Fresh Parsley, Chopped, OR
      1 ts Dried Parsley, Crushed
  Blend all of the ingredients, together until smooth.  Cover and chill.
  Makes about 1 1/4 cups of dip. SUGGESTED DIPPERS:  Shrimp, Crabmeat, Duck,
  Brussels Sprouts, Jimcama, Radishes.
      Title: Cocktail Crab Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips, Seafood, Cheese
   Servings:  4
    3/4 c  Catsup
    1/8 ts Hot Sauce
    1/2 c  Crabmeat, Flaked, OR
      6 oz Crabmeat, Flaked, Drain Well
      1 c  Cream Cheese, Softened
    1/8 ts Salt
      2 tb Prepared Horseradish
      3 tb White Onion, Diced
  Combine the catsup, horseradish and hot sauce.  Remove any remaining
  filament from the crabmeat.  Add the crabmeat to the catsup mixture and
  continue to blend.  Add all other ingredients and blend till smooth. Serve
  at room temperature.  Makes about 2 1/2 cups of dip. SUGGESTED DIPPERS:
  Salty Potato Chips, Potato Skins, Green Bell Peppers, Turnips.
      Title: Cocktail Crisps
 Categories: Appetizers, Entertain, Cheese, Syd's book
   Servings:  1
    1/4 lb Butter
      1 c  Flour
      1 c  Grated Cheddar Cheese
      1 c  Rice Krispies
  Blend the first three ingredients well.  Add the Rice Krispies.  Roll into
  small balls, about 1/2 teaspoon.  Flatten balls out on cookie sheet.  Bake
  in a 350øF oven for 12 to 15 minutes.  Cayenne pepper may be added along
  with the first three ingredients for added zest.  From: Syd's Cookbook.
      Title: Cocktail Crunch
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  1
      3 oz Rye flakes
      3 oz Jumbo oat flakes
      3 oz Barley flakes
      3 oz Wheat flakes
      3 oz Peanut kernals *see note
      2 oz Flaked almonds
      2 oz Sunflower seeds
      1 ts (heaped) coriander seeds
      1 ts (heaped) cumin seeds
      1 tb Garam marsala
      1 ts Tumeric
      3 tb Sesame oil
      3 tb Peanut oil
      1 tb Soy sauce
      5 tb Water
  *Note: Peanuts should not be salted or dry roast.
  Crush the coriander and cumin - lightly.  Mix them with the nuts and seeds
  on two baking trays.  Set the oven to 375 F (190 C) gas mark 5 and put the
  baking trays into the oven while it heats up.  Meanwhile measure the flaked
  grains and mix them together in a large bowl.  Put into a cup the garam
  marsala, tumeric, a good grinding of black pepper, a scrunch of sea salt,
  the soy, both sorts of oil and the water.
  When the oven has reached the required temperature, stir the nut and seed
  mixture with the flaked grains.  Beat the spicy oil-and-water mixture with
  a fork to emulsify it, pour it on to the dry ingredients and stir for 2
  minutes.  Spread the mixture out on to the baking trays and bake for 40
  minutes until golden.  Swap the positions of the trays in the oven at least
  once during this time and stir the mixture occasionally to encourage even
  cooking.  Let the mixture become cold and crunchy before storing in an
  airtight jar.  It keeps well for about a month.  Makes enough to fill one
  jar.
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), February 1988.
  Typed by Karen Mintzias
      Title: Cocktail Kebabs
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  8
      8 lg Shrimp, cooked
      2    Green onions, trimmed
    1/2    Red bell pepper, seeded, cut
           -in thin strips and
           -decorative shapes
      8 sm Ripe or green olives
      1    Garlic clove, crushed
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 ts Sugar
      1 ts Coarsely ground mustard
    1/4 ts Creamed horseradish
  Remove heads and body shells from shrimp but leave on tail shells.
  Devein shrimp by removing black spinal cord. Cut each green onion in 4
  daisies. Put shrimp, green onions, bell pepper and olives in a bowl. Mix
  garlic, lemon juice, olive oil, sugar, mustard and horseradish.
  Pour over shrimp mixture, cover and marinate at least 2 hours, stirring
  occasionally. Remove ingredients from marinade and thread equally on 8
  wooden picks. Drain on paper towels.
  VARIATION: Add small slices avacado to shrimp mixture.
      Title: Coconut Beer Batter Shrimp
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      2    Eggs
  1 3/4 c  All-purpose flour
    3/4 c  Beer (6 oz.)
      1 tb Baking powder
      4    Dozen medium shrimp, peeled
           -and deveined (leave tails
           -on),
           About two pounds.
      3 c  Grated coconut, about 6 oz.
  Seasoning mix: Cayenne pepper 1Tbls. Salt 2 1/4tsps. Sweet paprika 1
  1/2tsps. Black pepper 1 1/2tsps. Garlic powder 1 1/4tsps. Onion powder
  3/4tsps. Dried thyme 3/4tsps. Dried oragano 3/4tsps.
  _____________________________________________ Vegetable oil for deep
  frying. ** Thoroughly combine the ingredients for the seasoning mix in a
  small bowl and set aside.
  Mix 1 1/4 cups of the flour, 2 tsps. of the seasoning mix, baking powder,
  eggs, and beer together in a bowl, breaking up all lumps until it is
  smooth.
  Combine the remaining flour with 1 1/2 tsps. of the seasoning mix and set
  aside.  Place the coconut in a separate bowl.
  Sprinkle both sides of the shrimps with the remaining seasoning mix. Then
  Hold shrimp by the tail, dredge in the flour mixture, shake off excess, dip
  each in batter and allow excess to drip off. Coat each shrimp with the
  coconut and place the shrimp on a baking sheet.
  Heat deep fryer to 350 degrees.  Drop each shrimp into the hot oil and cook
  until golden brown, about 1/2 to 1 minute on each side. Do not crowd the
  fryer!
  Drain on paper towels and serve immediately, as is, or with a dipping sauce
  or fruit preserve. (Six main dish or twelve appetizer servings.)
      Title: Codfish Balls
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
   Servings:  4
      2 c  Cod, cooked and flaked
      1    Egg, beaten
      1 ds Pepper
      1 tb Butter, melted
  1 1/2 c  Potatoes, mashed
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 tb Onion juice
           Hot deep Canola oil
  Mix cod, egg, pepper, butter, potatoes, salt and onion juice. Beat until
  smooth. Shape lightly into small balls and deep fry in hot oil until golden
  brown, approximately 1 minute. Drain on paper towels and serve with lemon
  slices and cocktail sauce, if desired. Serves 4 as a Main dish. Serves 8 to
  10 as an Appetizer. Preparation time: 10 to 15 minutes. Cooking time:
  Approximately 1 minute. "101 Simple Seafood Recipes" by Pam & Bill Collins
      Title: Cold Clam Dip
 Categories: Dips, Appetizers, Seafood, Cheese
   Servings:  4
     10 oz Clams
      6 oz Philadelphia Cream Cheese
      1 ts Lemon Juice
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1 ts Worcestershire Sauce
      1    Garlic Clove (Pressed)
           Tabasco Sauce
  Blend all ingredients together.  Let set for 2 hours before serving. Potato
  chips and all party crackers are good with this dip.
      Title: Cold Crabmeat Nacho
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  1
     24 oz Cream cheese
      2 tb Mayonnaise; the real thing
        ds Tabasco
    1/4 c  Green onions; minced
    1/4 c  Celery; coarsely chopped
        ds Paprika
           Salt and pepper, to taste
      1 cn Black olives; finely
           -chopped (16 oz. can)
    1/2 lb Crabmeat; flaked
      1    Nacho cheese flavor doritos
      The best way to prepare this recipe in a food processor, because it
  chops the ingredients finely enough and blends them together for you. But
  if a food processor is not handy, you can use a blender and a chef's
  kniofe.  It will still come out great, no matter how you do it!
      First, mix the cream cheese to a pasty consistency.  It has to be soft
  and pliable.  THen, in a large mixing bowl, whip together the cheese and
  the mayonnaise until the mixture is smooth.  Toss in the Tabasco at this
  point and blend it in, too.  Next, add the minced onions, the celery, the
  seasonings, the finely chopped black olives, and the crabmeat. Just put
  them all together -- it's not necessary to add them one at a time. But is
  *is* necessary to blend them all *gently*. If you get rough, you'll smash
  the ingredients and you'll lose the crispness.
      When you're ready to serve, lay out the *whole* bag of Doritos on a
  pizza pan and stuff each one, heaping on the crabmeat mixture and
  sprinkling the tops with paprika.  To increase the flavor, put the stuffed
  chips in the refrigerator for an hour or two. Author's note: ...While
  crabmeat is used in the original dish, you can also substitute chopped
  shrimp or crawfish for the crabmeat, and the basic mix is also excellent
  for stuffing avocados, tomatoes, celery stalks, and just about anyting your
  taste dictates. Note from me: I don't care for Nacho Cheese Flavor Doritos
  but instead these are great with the unsalted style chips you get with
  salsa at Mexican restaurants. Source: Frank Davis Seafood Notebook
      Title: Cold Glazed Salmon
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
    3/4 c  Dry White Wine
      8    Basil Leaves
      3    Tarragon (Plus Garnish)
      3    Shallots, Minced
      2    Rosemary
      2    Lemon Slices
      3    Celery Leaves
      7 lb Whole Salmon, Cleaned, Rinse
      8 c  Fish Aspic  (See Recipe)
      1    Turnip
      1    Egg Yolk, Hard Cooked, Mash
      1 ts Unsalted Butter
  In a small saucepan, combine the wine, basil, 3 tarragon sprigs, shallots,
  rosemary, lemon, and celery.  Simmer the mixture for 20 minutes or until
  the liquid is reduced to about 3 T.  Lay the salmon on a piece of heavy
  foil, twice as long as the fish.  Pick up edges of foil and pour the wine
  mixture over the fish.  Season with salt and fold the foil to enclose  it,
  crimping the edges tightly to secure them.  Put the salmon on a large
  baking sheet or roasting pan and bake it in the middle of a preheated 375øF
  oven for 50-60 minutes or until the fish just flakes.  Transfer the package
  to a work surface, open foil carefully, and remove the skin from the top of
  the salmon below the head to the bottom of the salmon at the tail. Scrape
  away any brown flesh, leaving head and tail intact.  Drain liquid from the
  foil, and using the foil as a guide, invert the fish onto a platter. Remove
  foil and skin and prepare the other side of the salmon in the same manner.
  Chill the fish, covered, overnight.  Peel turnip and cut into thin slices.
  Trim each slice to ressemble a flower or cut with a flower cutter. Place in
  a bowl of ice water to hold until ready for use. Mash the egg yolk with the
  butter and reserve at room temperature.  Spoon a thin coat of cool but
  liquid fish aspic over the salmon and arrange the additional tarragon
  sprigs and turnip flowers decoratively on the fish. Spoon a thin coat of
  liquid aspic over the whole.  Transfer the yolk mixture to a pastry bag
  fitted with a decorative tip.  Pipe the mixture into the centers of the
  flowers.  Chill the salmon for at least 2 hours or up to 6 hours. Serve
  surrounded with the chilled aspic, chopped. A 1964 Gourmet Magazine
  Favorite.
      Title: Cold Spinach Dip
 Categories: Dips, Appetizers
   Servings:  4
      1 pk Spinach *
      1 c  Water Chestnuts **
      1 pk Knorr Vegetable Soup Mix
      1 c  Mayonnaise
      8 oz Sour Cream
  * Spinach should be cooked, chopped and drained. ** Water chestnuts should
  be chopped and drained.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Mix all ingredients and place in a sealed container.  Refrigerate for 2
  days.  Serve on crackers.
      Title: Colorado Pate
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
           Jim Vorheis
    1/4 lb Butter
      1 lb Chicken livers
      1 md Onion, chopped
      3    Shallots, chopped
    1/2 ts Thyme
    1/2 ts Rosemary
      1    Bay leaf
     12 lg Fresh mushrooms, chopped
    1/4 c  Brandy
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
  In a large skillet, melt the butter.  Add chicken livers, onion and
  shallots.  Stir over medium heat about 10 minutes.  Add spices and
  mushrooms.  Stir frequently while cooking for 5 minutes. Discard bay leaf
  and pour mixture into blender.  Pour in brandy, salt and pepper. Blend 2
  minutes, then pour into a 2 cup souffle dish. Chill. Garnish with parsley.
  Serve with melba toast rounds.
  Colorado Cache Cookbook (1978) From the collection of Jim Vorheis
      Title: Contemplating Cape Cod Clam Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese, Dips, Seafood
   Servings:  4
    1/2 c  Clams, Minced, OR
  6 1/2 oz Clams, Minced, Well Drained
      1 c  Cream Cheese, Softened
    1/8 ts Hot Sauce
      1 ts Lemon Juice
    1/4 ts Worcestershire Sauce
      2 tb Clam Juice
      1 tb Chili Sauce
      1 tb Onion Juice
  Blend the clams, clam juice, and cream cheese to a smooth consistency. Add
  all of the other ingredients and blend well.  Cover and chill.  Makes about
  1 3/4 cups of dip.  SUGGESTED DIPPERS:  Carrots, Fennel, Zucchini, Wheat
  Crackers.
      Title: Continental Mushroom Caviar
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      1 sm Onion, sliced and minced
      2 tb Olive oil
    1/2 lb Mushrooms, chopped fine
           Salt and pepper
      1 tb Lemon juice
           Wild chives, chopped
      1 tb Sour cream
  Continental Mushroom Caviar
  Fry the onion in the oil until soft and limp. Add mushrooms and cook until
  just barely soft. Add seasoning and other ingredients. Chill well before
  serving time. This is nice served with thin tomato slices or spread on
  crackers. ******************** Recipe from Cooking Alaskan, page 281
      Title: Corn and Marigold Fritters
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  4
      8 oz Sweetcorn kernals
      4 tb Double (heavy) cream
      1 tb Flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder (or soda)
           Sea salt
           White pepper
      1 tb Marigold petals *
      1 tb Sunflower oil, or more
  *NOTE: Make certain that you use a pot marigold (Calendula) rather than an
  African marigold (Tagetes).
  This is an excellent supper dish, which children will enjoy.  Serve the
  fritters with a hot green vegetable or salad and brown bread and butter.
  Put the sweetcorn in a bowl and pour over the cream.  Sift in the flour and
  baking powder (soda) and season to taste.  Stir in the marigold petals.
  Set a large, heavy frying pan over high heat and pour in the oil.  Drop
  spoonfuls of the fritter mixture into the oil and fry until golden on both
  sides, turning once.  Press the mixture flat with a spatula to give a lacy
  effect at the edges.
  Cook the fritters in bunches until all the mixture is used up, adding more
  oil to the pan if necessary.  Serve hot.
  Source: Cooking with Flowers, by Jenny Leggatt Typed by none other than:
  Karen Mintzias
      Title: Corn and Walnut Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings:  8
     16 oz Cream Cheese, Softened
    1/4 c  Vegetable Oil
    1/4 c  Lime Juice
      1 tb Red Chiles, Ground
      1 tb Cumin, Ground
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ds Pepper
  8 3/4 oz Corn, Whole Kernel, Drained
      1 c  Walnuts, Chopped
    1/4 c  Onion, Chopped
  Beat all ingredients except corn, walnuts and onion in a large bowl, with
  an electric mixer on medium speed, until smooth.  Stir in corn, walnuts,
  and onion.  Serve with tortilla chips.  Makes 4 cups of dip.
      Title: Corn Fritters
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  1
      2    Eggs
  1 2/3 c  Corn, whole kernal style
  1 1/4 c  Flour, all purpose
      1 ts Baking powder
  1 1/2 ts Salt
  Beat eggs and stir in corn.  Sift flour, measure and sift again with baking
  powder and salt.  Combine beaten eggs and corn with flour mixture. Drop by
  teaspoonfuls into deep fryer and fry until golden brown.  Drain on paper
  towel.  Serve with butter, syrup or jelly.
      Title: Cottage Cheese Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese, Dips
   Servings:  4
    1/4 c  Cucumber, Diced
    1/4 c  Green Onion, Diced, Use All
    1/4 c  Radish, Diced
    1/2 c  Cottage Cheese
    1/2 c  Sour Cream
    1/2 ts Celery Salt
    1/4 ts Black Pepper
  Mix the cucumber, green onion, and radishes together, then blend in the
  cottage cheese and sour cream.  Add the celery salt and pepper blending all
  of the ingredients well.  Cover and chill.  Makes about 1 3/4 cups of dip.
  SUGGESTED DIPPERS:  Pita Bread Triangles, Potato Skins, Seafood, Turnips,
  Bok Choy.
      Title: Country Club Sour Cream and Dill Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings:  6
      3 ts Fresh dill, chopped, OR
      1 ts Dried Dill, Crushed
      1 ts Lemon Juice
      1 c  Sour Cream
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts White Pepper
      2 ts White Onion, Grated
      1 c  Mayonnaise
  Mix the dill and lemon juice together to soften the dill.  Blend in all of
  the other ingredients until almost smooth.  Cover and chill.  Makes about
  2-1/4 cups of dip.  SUGGESTED DIPPERS:  Red Cabbage, Broccoli, Zucchini,
  Tomatoes, String Beans, Cocktail Rye Bread, Seafood, Apples, Nectarines
      Title: Country Honey Mustard Dip
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  1
    1/2 c  Salad dressing
    1/2 c  Sour cream
      2 tb Country Dijon mustard
      2 tb Honey
  In small bowl combine all ingredients.  Mix well and refrigerate. Makes 1
  1/2 cups.
      Title: Country Pate' with Pistachios
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  8
      1 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Shallots; coarsely chopped
    1/2 lb Pork liver; or veal liver,
    1/4 ts Thyme; dry
    1/2    Bay leaf; crumbled
    3/4 lb Veal; lean, cut into 1-inch
      1 lb Pork; lean, cut into 1-inch
    1/2 lb Ham; cooked, cut into 1/2-i
    1/2 c  Pistachios; shelled, toaste
    1/8    Allspice
    1/8 ts Ground cloves
    1/4 ts Ground cloves
    1/4 ts Nutmeg; fresly grated
    1/8 ts Ground cumin
      1 pn Ground cinnamon
      1 pn Cayenne pepper
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
      1    Salt to taste if desired
      1    Freshly ground pepper to tas
      2    Sl Bacon; lean
  Servings:  8
  1.  Preheat the oven to 425F. 2. Heat the butter in a heavy skillet and add
  the shallots. Cook briefly, stirring. Add the liver and sprinkle with the
  thyme and bay leaf. Cook about 2 minutes, stirring occasionally. 3. Put the
  veal in a food processor or blender and blend it slightly finer than
  store-bought hamburger.  Empty the veal into a mixing bowl. 4. Put the pork
  in the food processor or blender and blend it a little coarser than
  store-bought hamburger.  Add the pork to the veal. 5. Put the liver mixture
  in the food processor or blender and blend it as finely as possible. Pour
  and scrape it into the bowl with the pork and veal. Add the ham and
  pistachios.  Add the allspice, cloves, nutmeg, cumin, cinnamon, cayenne,
  wine, salt and pepper and blend well with your fingers. To test the mixture
  for seasoning, shape a small portion into a patty and cook it, turning
  once, in a nonstick sillet until cook through. Taste the patty and add more
  seasonings as desired. 6. Pack the mixture in a 5- or 6-cup loaf pan.
  Smooth the top, rounding it slightly. Place the bacon slices on top. Cover
  tightly with foil and place the pan in a heatproof baking dish. Set the
  dish on the stove and pour in boiling water around the loaf pan. Bring the
  water to a boil.  Place the pan in the water bath in the oven and bake 45
  minutes or to an internal temperature of 150F.  Remove the pan from the
  oven and let stand until ready to serve. 7. The pate' is excellent hot or
  cold.  Cut it crosswise into slices and serve. Yield: 6 to 10 servings.
  Recipe from "Cuisine Rapide" by Pierre Franey and Bryan Miller.
      Title: Country Pate
 Categories: Appetizers, Pork, Veal
   Servings:  3
  1 1/2 lb Boneless pork, ground fine
           -twice
      1 lb Boneless veal, ground fine
           -twice
    3/4 c  Dry white wine
      2 tb Brandy
      2 tb Oil
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
      2 lg Onions, sliced thin
      2 sm Cloves garlic, halved
      1 lb Fresh pork fatback, sliced
           -thin
      1    Cornichon pickle for garnish
  Servings: Makes about 3 lbs From: Sallie Krebs
  DIRECTIONS: In a large bowl, combine the pork and veal. Mix the wine,
  brandy and oil with salt and pepper to taste, and pour the mixture over the
  meats. Scatter the onions and garlic on top. Cover the bowl tightly and
  refrigerate it for at least 24 hours.
  Preheat the oven to 375-F. Discard the onions, but put the garlic through a
  press and knead it into the meats together with the wine mixture. Break off
  a small piece of meat and fry it in a lightly oiled skillet over moderate
  heat for 3 or 4 minutes, or until its juices run clear, without a trace of
  pink. Taste the piece and, if you like, add more garlic, salt and pepper.
  (Pork is unsafe to eat uncooked; do not taste the meats raw.)
  Slightly overlapping the slices, line the bottom and sides of a 2-quart
  terrine mold or a 7 1/2 x 3 1/2 x 2 1/2 inch loaf pan with the fatback.
  Pack the meat mixture into the mold, and arrange the remaining slices of
  fatback on top of it. Fit foil over the mold, or cover the meat mixture
  with foil and a lid. To let steam escape, pierce a hole in the foil with a
  skewer. If you are using a lid, insert the skewer through its hole to
  puncture the foil.
  Set the mold on a rack in a large pan or dish. Place them all in the oven,
  and pour enough almost-boiling water into the pan to cover 2/3 of the mold.
  Bake for 2 hours or until the pate shrinks slightly from the sides of the
  mold and the surrounding fat and juices are a clear yellowish white with no
  traces of pink. Or insert a meat thermometer; it should register 160-F when
  the pate is done.
  Take the pate from the oven, but leave the foil in place. Set the pate on a
  rack to cool to room temperature. Then put another pan with a heavy can or
  weights inside it, or even a brick, on top of the pate to compact the
  meats. Chill the pate thoroughly (overnight is best) with the weights in
  place. Before serving, cut the cornichon into a fan shape, slicing
  lengthwise through the pickle 4 or 5 times to within 1/2 inch of one end.
  Spread the slices into a fan, and garnish the pate with it.
  Source: Best Recipes from Time-Life Books, ISBN# 0-517-06502-9 Originally
  from: Great Dinners from Life
      Title: Cowboy Caviar
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips, Cheese, Beans
   Servings: 12
     15 oz Black Beans, Rinse & Drain *
      4 oz Ripe Olives, Chop,Drained *
    1/4 c  Onion, Finely Chopped,
      1    Clove Garlic, Finely Chopped
      2 tb Vegetable Oil
      2 tb Lime Juice
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Red Pepper, Crushed
    1/4 ts Cumin, Ground
    1/8 ts Pepper
      8 oz Cream Cheese, Softened
      2 lg Eggs, Hard Cooked, **
      1    Green Onion W/Top, Sliced
  *  1 can of each black beans and ripe olives.  Drain and rinse the beans.
  Drain the chopped ripe olives. ** Eggs should be peeled and chopped.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Mix all ingredients except cream cheese, eggs, and green onion.  Cover and
  refrigerate at least 2 hours.  Spread cream cheese on serving plate. Spoon
  bean mixture evenly over cream cheese.  Arrange eggs on bean mixture in
  ring around the edge of the plate; sprinkle with green onion.
      Title: Crab & Avocado Fritters
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
   Servings:  4
      2 lb Crabmeat
           Salt
      1 c  Diced green onions
    1/4 c  Dry breadcrumbs
      1 md Avocado, peeled and cut into
           -1/4-inch pieces
           Corn Oil For Deep-Frying
           All-Purpose Flour
           Thinly slivered green
           -onion(Optional)
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Hot chili salsa
  Line baking sheet with parchment.  Combine crab, 1 c green onions and
  avocado in large bowl.  Mix eggs, salsa and salt; add to crab.  Mix in
  breadcrumbs.  Form mixture into 1 1/2 inch balls.  Place on prepared sheet.
  Cover with plastic and refrigerate 3 hours. (Can be prepared one day ahead
  and frozen.  Do not thaw before cooking.)
  Preheat oven to lowest setting.  Line another baking sheet with paper
  towels.  Pour oil into large skillet to depth of 3 inches.  Heat to 350
  degrees.  Dust fritters with flour.  Carefully ad to oil in batches (do not
  crowd) and cook until golden brown, about 2 minutes per side for
  refrigerated fritters and about 3 minutes per side for frozen.  Drain on
  paper towels.  Transfer to prepared sheet and keep warm in oven until all
  are cooked.  Garnish with green onion slivers and serve immediately.  From
  Bon Appetit, Nov '86.
  Makes 4 dozen
      Title: Crab and Asparagus Dijonnaise
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  6
    1/2 ts Vegetable oil
    1/2 ts Fresh lemon juice
      1 ts Fresh minced tarragon or 1/4
           -teaspoon dried tarragon
   9/16 ts Minced shallots
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 lb Fresh crabmeat, cooked and
           -shredded
      2    To 3 heads Belgian Endive,
           -carefully separated, rinsed
           -and chilled
     12    Or more asparagus spears,
           -steamed, chilled and split
           -lengthwise
  Dijon Sauce (recipe below)
  Combine the oil, lemon juice, tarragon, shallots and salt. Toss with the
  crab. Place in a covered container and refrigerate for several hours to let
  flavors blend.
  To serve, place an asparagus spear-half on each leaf of endive. Top with
  approximately 2-3 teaspoons Dijon Sauce and sprinkle with crab.
  Dijon Sauce: 2 egg yolks, room temperature 1 tablespoon rice wine vinegar 2
  teaspoons fresh lemon juice 5 teaspoons Dijon mustard 1/2 teaspoon sugar
  1/4 teaspoon slat 1 Dash of white pepper 1/2 cup vegetable oil 1/2 cup
  Creme Fraiche
  Place the egg yolks, vinegar, lemon juice, mustard, sugar, salt and pepper
  in a blender. Blend for a few seconds. With the motor still running, add
  the oil in a slow steady stream until well incorporated.
  Remove the sauce to a bowl and whisk in the Creme Fraiche. Cover and
  refrigerate. This can be made several days in advance and kept in the
  refrigerator. Leftover sauce is wonderful with chilled artichokes.
  From California Heritage Continues -a cookbook by The Junior League of
  Pasadena
  Shared by Sylvia Mease
      Title: Crab and Cream Cheese Hors D'oeuvres
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese, Seafood
   Servings:  1
      8 oz Cream Cheese, Softened
      8 oz Backfin Crabmeat
      1 tb Milk
      2 tb Chopped Onion
    1/2 ts Horseradish
      2 oz Slivered Almonds
           Salt
           Pepper
  Blend together all ingredients except almonds and put in shallow baking
  dish (salt/pepper to taste).  Sprinkle almonds over top and bake at 350øF
  until slightly browned on top.  Serve hot on crackers.  Makes 2 cups.
      Title: Crab and Corn Cakes
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
   Servings:  1
      1 c  Corn
      2    Cloves garlic,chopped
      1 ts Dijon mustard
      1    Egg
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/2 c  Crab
    1/2 c  Flour
      2    Green onions, chopped
  Blend 1/2 c corn, garlic, worcestershire sauce, mustard and egg in blender
  until smooth. Add remaining corn, crab, onions and enough flour to make
  thick mixture. Fry in skillet. To make low-fat and high fiber, use 2 egg
  whites instead of whole egg and substitute oat flakes for flour.
  Source: Modified from Health Smart Gourmet Cooking
  Typed by: Sharon Verrall
      Title: Crab Claw Marinade
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      1 c  Olive Oil
    1/2 c  Vinegar
    1/4 c  Lemon Juice
      1 ts Tarragon
    3/4 ts Black Pepper
    3/4 ts Salt
    3/4 ts Sugar
--------------------------FOOD PROCESSOR-------------------------------
      1 c  Parsley
      1 c  Celery
      1 c  Scallions
      4    Cloves Of Garlic (4-10)
  Mix all together, pour over claws and serve.
      Title: Crab Dip #1
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips, Seafood
   Servings: 12
    1/2 c  Mayonaise
    1/2 c  Sour Cream
           Celery
           Green Onion
    3/4 lb Mock Crab, Flaked
           Dill
  Take mock crab and flake it into small pieces, place in a bowl.  Cut up
  enough celery and green onions to add to mixture.  Shake an ample amount of
  dill into mixture.  Add mayonaise and sour cream.  Chill thoroughly. Best
  if chilled overnight.  Stir just prior to serving.  Serve on crackers.
  Great dip!!
      Title: Crab Dip #2
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  8
      1 lb Crabmeat
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise Or Salad Dressing
           Garlic Salt, To Taste
      2 tb Onion, Grated
      2 ts Prepared Mustard
      2 ts Powdered Sugar
    2/3 c  White Wine
  Mix together all ingredients except crabmeat.  Heat slowly.  Add Crabmeat.
  Serve warm with crackers.
      Title: Crab Fritters
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
   Servings: 24
  1 3/4 c  All-purpose flour
  1 1/2 c  Warm water
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/8 ts Salt
      1 lb Crabmeat
    3/4 c  Fresh white breadcrums
      4 lg Egg whites, divided
      3 tb Chopped fresh parsley
           Salt and pepper, to taste
           All-purpose flour, for
           Dredging
           Vegetable oil,for deep
           Frying
---------------------------CURRY SAUCE--------------------------------
  1 1/2 tb Olive oil
      1 sm Garlic clove, minced
      1 ts Curry powder
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
    1/2 c  Sour cream
      2 tb Orange Juice
      1 tb Sugar
      1 tb Fresh lemon juice
      1 tb Chutney
       Mix the first five ingredients in a medium bowl to blend.  Let the
  bater stand for 1 hour at room temperature.  Mix the crabmeat, bread
  crumbs, two of the egg whites and the parsley in a large bowl.  Season with
  salt and pepper.  Divide the mixture into 24 mounds.  press each mound
  firmly into a ball.  Roll each crabmeat ball in flour; shake off excess.
  Immediately before frying, beat the remaining egg whites in a small bowl to
  stiff peaks.  Fold the egg whites into the batter.
       Heat the oil in a deep fryer or heavy saucepan to 360F.  Dip the crab
  balls, one at a time, into the batter, coating completely. Carefully lower
  into the oil.  Repeat with the remaining crab balls, cooking until pale and
  golden brown, about 5 minutes.  Use a slotted spoonto transfer the fritters
  to paper towels and drain.  Serve with Curry Sauce.
  Makes 24 fritters.
  NOTES:
       Do not overcrowd the fryer or saucepan when making these crab
  fritters.  Make no more than 5 fritters at a time.
       Be certain to slide the fritters gently into the hot oil. Dropping
  them into the oil can can cause a dangerous splash.
       Turn the fritters frequently as they fry, making sure that all sides
  are browned.
       Heat the oil in a small heavy skillet over medium heat.  add the
  garlic and saute for 1 minute.  Add the curry powder and stir for 1 minute.
  Transfer the mixture to a blender.  Add all of the remaining ingredients
  and blend until smooth.  Pour into a bowl.
       [The Baltimore Sun; Dec 11, 1991] Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Crab Melt Canapes
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood, Cheese
   Servings:  1
    1/2 lb Crab Meat
    1/4 lb Jarlsberg Or Swiss Cheese
    1/4 c  Mayonnaise Or Whipped Salad
    1/4 ts Dry Mustard
     30    Melba Toast Rounds
    1/2 c  Sliced Pitted Ripe Olives
           Rosemary Or Watercress
  ABOUT 30 MINUTES BEFORE SERVING OR EARLY IN DAY: Chop crabmeat. In small
  bowl, with fork, mix crabmeat, cheese, mayonnaise, dry mustard, and 1/4 t
  coarsely ground black pepper. Spread 1 heaping teaspoon crabmeat mixture on
  each Melba toast round. Place on cookie sheets; sprinkle with 1/2 teaspoon
  coarsely ground black pepper. If not serving right away, cover and
  refrigerate.  ABOUT 15 MINUTES BEFORE SERVING: Preheat broiler if
  manuafcturer directs. Broil canapes about 3 minutes or until cheese melts.
  Top each canape with a slice of ripe olive. Arrange canapes and garnish on
  platter; serve immediately Makes 2 1/2 dozen canapes.
      Title: Crab Mousse
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  6
      2 tb Unflavored gelatin
    1/2 c  Cold water
      1 c  Boiling water
      1 c  Mayonnaise
      1 c  Whipping cream
      2 c  Flaked crabmeat
  2 1/2 tb Pimiento
      6    Stuffed olives, stuffed
    1/2    Green peper, diced
           Salt and pepper to taste
  Soften gelatin in cold water.  Dissolve in boiling water, then chill. Fold
  in mayonnaise, whipped cream, crabmeat, pimiento, olives and green pepper.
  Turn into a cold, wet 6 cup mold and chill until set.
      Title: Crab Muffins
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
   Servings: 24
    1/2 lb Crabmeat (7 oz. can)
      1    Stick margarine
      1    Jar Old English Cheese
    1/2 ts Garlic salt
      2 tb Mayonnaise
    1/2 ts Season salt
      6    English Muffins
  Contributed to the echo by: Theresa Merkling CRAB MUFFINS Mix together all
  except muffins. Spread on muffins. Cut muffins into quarters. Freeze on
  cookie sheet. Put in bag and store in freezer until needed. Broil and
  serve.
      Title: Crab Rangoon #1
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      1 pk Frozen won-ton skins
      8 oz Cream cheese, softened
      1 cn Or small package frozen
           -crabmeat, or fresh!
           Sour cream
           White garlic powder
           -to taste
  Add a dollop of sour cream to cheese and cream until mayonnaise
  consistency. Stir in drained crabmeat, add garlic powder.  Place a round
  teaspoonful on won-ton skin and wrap like an egg roll.  Seal edge with
  beaten egg white.  Deep fry until golden, and serve hot!
      Title: Crab Rangoon #2
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings: 48
      1 pk (8oz) cream cheese
      1 cn (6oz) crab meat, drained and
           -flaked 2 green onions
  CRAB RANGOON
  including tops, thinly sliced 1 clove garlic, minced 2 tsp Worcestershire
  sauce 1/2 tsp lite soy sauce 1 pkg (48 count) won ton skins vegetable spray
  coating
  In medium bowl, combine all ingredients except won ton skins and spray
  coating; mix until well blended. (To prevent won ton skins from drying out,
  prepare one or two rangoon at a time.) Place 1 tsp filling in center of
  each won ton skin.  Pull bottom corners down and overlap slightly; moisten
  one corner and press to Lightly spray baking sheet with vegetable coating.
  Arrange rangoon on sheet and lightly spray to coat. Bake in 425 degree oven
  for 12-15 minutes or until golden brown. Serve hot with sweet-sour sauce or
  mustard sauce.
  Makes 48 appetizers.
      Title: Crab Roll Hors D'oeuvres
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood, Cheese
   Servings:  1
      1 lb Backfin Crabmeat
      8 oz Cream Cheese, Softened
  Season slightly with your choice of the following: salt, cream, onion,
  sherry, pepper, Tabasco, mustard, Worcestershire. Remove all cartilage from
  crabmeat.  Very gently mix crab with cream cheese, being careful not to
  break the pieces.  Shape into a log, sprinkle with parsley, chill, and
  serve with crackers.
      Title: Crab Souffle Roll
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood, Cheese
   Servings:  7
    1/2 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Flour
      2 c  Milk
      4    Egg Yolks
    1/2 ts Salt
      1    Dash Of Red Pepper
      2 ts Snipped Chives
      4    Egg Whites
    1/4 ts Cream Of Tartar
    1/3 c  Parmesean Cheese
-------------------------CRABMEAT FILLING------------------------------
      4    Scllaions (Finely Chopped)
      2 tb Butter
      2 pk (6 Oz. Each) Crabmeat
      3 oz Cream Cheese
    1/3 c  Half And Half
      2 ts Snipped Parsley
      1 ds Tabasco
      1    Salt And Pepper To Taste
  Grease 15 1/2 x 10 1/2 x 1" pan.  Line with waxed paper, grease lightly and
  flour.  Heat butter and remove from heat.  Stir in flour.  Cook over low
  heat, stirring til smooth and bubbly.  Remove from heat, stir in milk. Heat
  to boiling, stir constantly.  Boil and stir 1 minute.  Remove from heat,
  beat in egg yolks, one at a time.  Stir in salt, red pepper, chives, and
  cheese.  Cool at room temp, cover mix to prevent film.  Heat oven 350øF.
  Beat in whites with cream of tartar, sitff not dry.  Fold in 1/4 whites
  into mixture, fold in remaining whites.  Bake until puffed and golden brown
  35-45 minutes.  Immediately loosen souffle from edges of pan, invert on
  cloth covered cooking rack.  Spread with filling.  Roll from narrow end
  ~cut desired slices when cool. Cook and stir green onions in butter til
  tender.  Stir in remaining ingredients.  Heat until hot.
      Title: Crab Stuffed Mushrooms
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings: 10
     20 lg Mushrooms
           Italian Dressing
      8 oz Crabmeat, Well Picked
    3/4 c  Fresh Breadcrumbs
      2    Eggs, Beaten
    1/4 c  Mayonnaise
    1/4 c  Onion, Minced
      1 ts Lemon Juice
  Marinate mushrooms in Italian dressing; drain.  Combine crabmeat, a
  half-cup of breadcrumbs, eggs, mayonnaise, onion and lemon juice.  Fill
  mushrooms.  Top with remaining breadcrumbs; bake at 375øF for 15 minutes.
  Yields 20 appetizers or 4 main course servings.
      Title: Crab Stuffed Jalapenos
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings: 30
      1 lb Flaked crabmeat
      1 cn Jalapeno peppers(1 lb, 11oz)
      2 tb Green pepper; finely chopped
      2 tb Onions; finely chopped
    1/4 c  Cracker meal
      1    Egg; beaten
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Black pepper
    1/8 ts Cayenne pepper
      1    Clove garlic; minced
    1/4 c  Milk
-------------------------BREADING MIXTURE------------------------------
      2 c  Cracker meal
      1 c  Milk
      2    Eggs
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
  Cut peppers in half lengthwise. Discard pulp and seeds and rinse carefully.
  In a large mixing bowl, combine remaining ingredients except breading
  mixture. Stuff pepper halves with crab mixture and press stuffing around
  pepper. Set peppers aside. To prepare Breading Mixture, place cracker meal
  in a flat pan, mix together milk, eggs and salt and pepper. Dip peppers in
  egg mixture, then in cracker meal. Repeat procedure. Deep fry at 365
  degrees until golden brown. Drain on absorbent paper.
      Title: Crab Tarts
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  6
      3 lg Eggs, beaten
  1 1/2 c  Skim milk
    3/4 c  Swiss cheese, grated
      2 tb Cream cheese, softened
      1 tb Onion, minced
    1/4 c  Parsley, chopped
    1/2 c  Carrots, shredded
      1 lb Regular crabmeat
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
    1/4 ts White pepper
      1 pn Salt
  pastry for 2 crust pie
  Roll out dough thinly and cut into 2" diameter circles with a cookie
  cutter. Lightly press dough circles into oiled tart shells. Prick dough
  with fork. Bake for 5-7 minutes at 450 degrees. Remove from oven. Set
  aside. Mix together remaining ingredients and spoon into tart shells,
  filling 1/2 inch over top of shells. Bake for 25 minutes at 375 degrees or
  until a toothpick inserted comes out clean.
      Title: Crab-Stuffed Mushrooms
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  6
    1/4 c  Minced scallions
      2 ts Reduced-calorie tub
           -margarine
      4 oz Drained canned crabmeat,
           -cartilage removed
      2 tb Minced fresh parsley
      1 tb Drained white horseradish
      2    Cloves garlic, minced
           -(pressed)
      2    Drops hot red pepper sauce
      2    1/4 c small mushrooms, stems
           -removed* (24)
  From: WWM May '91 ; Valerie Whittle Serves: 4
  Ground red pepper to garnish
  1. Combine scallions and margarine in 2-cup measure.  Microwave on High 2
  minutes; stir in crabmeat, parsley, horseradish, garlic and pepper sauce.
  Stir well.
  2. Place half the mushrooms, stemmed sides up, in a 9" pie plate.  Fill
  each mushroom cap with 1 t. crab mixture.  Microwave on High 3-4 minutes,
  turning plate once.  Remove mushrooms to serving plate; repeat with
  remaining mushrooms and filling.  Let stand 2-3 minutes before serving. To
  garnish, sprinkle with ground red pepper.
  Each serving (6 mushrooms) provides: 1/4 FA, 1 P, 1 1/4V.  Per serving: 52
  cals, 7 g pro, 2 g fat, 3 g car, 120 mg sod, 25 mg chol.
  *Reserve stems to use in soup.
      Title: Crabmeat Appetizer
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
     12 oz Cream cheese
      2 ts Worcestershire sauce
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Mayonnaise
    1/2 c  Finely chopped onion
           Garlic salt to taste
     12 oz Chili relish
  small can crabmeat
  Mix all ingredients (except chili relish and crabmeat).  Spread mixture on
  pie plate, cover and chill overnight.  Before serving, cover cheese mixture
  with chili relish, then drained crabmeat.  Serve on Melba rounds.
      Title: Crabmeat Dip
 Categories: Dips, Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings:  6
      1    8 oz pkg cream cheese
      1    Stick butter
      1 lb White crabmeat
      1    Sm. onion, finely chopped
      1 ds Tabasco sauce
    1/8 ts Garlic powder
      1 ds White pepper
  In a double boiler, melt the cream cheese and butter. Add the crabmeat and
  seasonings.  Serve in a chafing dish to keep warm. Good with dip-size corn
  chips, in pastry shells, or crackers.
  Posted by Mike Hackmann  6/93
      Title: Crabmeat Mousse
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
           Jim Vorheis
      1 tb Unflavored gelatin
    1/4 c  Cold water
      1 c  Undiluted mushroom soup
      8 oz Cream cheese, softened
      1 c  Mayonnaise
    3/4 c  Finely chopped celery
  6 1/2 oz Can Alaskan king crab meat,
           -drained
      1 tb Grated onion
  1 1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
  Soak gelatin in cold water to soften.  Heat soup.  Stir gelatin into hot
  soup, making sure it is dissolved.  Add cream cheese and mayonnaise. Beat
  until smooth.  Add celery, crabmeat, onion and Worcestershire. Pour into
  mold and chill.  Serve with club crackers.
  Colorado Cache Cookbook (1978) From the collection of Jim Vorheis
      Title: Crabmeat Ravigote
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  2
      1 tb Green pepper - minced
      1 tb Green onion - minced
      1 tb Pimiento - minced
      1 ts Lemon juice - fresh
      1 ts Freshly ground black pepper
      1 pn Cayenne
      6 oz Crabmeat - lump, cartilage
           -removed
  Calories     per serving: 78.4        Number of Servings:   2 Fat grams per
  serving: 1.21         Approx. Cook Time: Cholesterol per serving: 65.7
  Marks:
  *DIRECTIONS*
  Combine all the vegetables and seasonings, then gently fold in the
  crabmeat, being careful not to break it up too much.
  NOTE:  This is a delightful summer salad or appetizer.
  VARIATIONS:  Artificial crabmeat can be used, as can small shrimp or
  crawfish tails boiled without salt.
  "Louisiana Light" by Roy F. Guste, Jr.
      Title: Crabs Carribbean-Style
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
   Servings:  8
      8 tb Butter
      4    Scallions chopped
      1 ts To 2 ts chopped garlic
      1    Hot green chili, finely
           -chopped and seeded
           (or use dried red pepper
           -flakes)
      1 tb Curry powder
    3/4    To 1 lb crab meat, shredded
      2 tb Chopped fresh coriander
           -leaves, if possible
      2 tb Finely chopped parsley
           Salt nd freshly ground
           -pepper
      6 tb To 8 tb crab liquid or clam
           -broth
      2 c  Bread crumbs
  Melt butter in skillet; add scallions, garlic and chili peppers and cook
  until scallions are wilted. Add curry powder to this mixture and blend
  thoroughly. Add crab, coriander and parsley. Add salt, pepper and crab
  liquid (if more is needed, add melted butter). Blend in bread crumbs. Fill
  the mixture in 8 clam shells and bake at 400 degrees F about 10 minutes or
  until browned. Serves 8 as an appetizer or 3 to 4 as a main course.
  ///\/\\\ From the hearth in Sandee's Kitchen...
      Title: Cream Cheese in Sour Dough
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings:  8
      8 oz Cream Cheese
      8 oz Sour Cream
      1    Jar Armour Dry Beef (Chop)
      4 oz Grated Chedder Cheese
      1 ds Lea & Perrins Sauce
      1    Garlic To Taste
      1    Tabasco To Taste
      3    Chopped Green Onions
      1    Round Sour Dough Bread Loft
  Combine all ingredients and mix until well blended.  Hollow out center of
  the Sour Dough round and place cheese mixture in the hollowed out cavity.
  Wrap the round in foil and bake at 350øF for 45 minutes.  Tear sour dough
  removed from round into pieces and use for dipping.
      Title: Cream Cheese-Deviled Ham Dip
 Categories: Dips
   Servings: 10
      1 pk Cream cheese,softened(8oz)
      1 cn Deviled ham(4 1/2oz)
    1/4 c  Dry red wine
      3 tb Finely chopped dill pickle
      1 ts Instant minced onion
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/4 ts Instant minced garlic
    1/4 ts Dry mustard
  Beat cream cheese, deviled ham and wine in small mixer bowl until creamy.
  Stir in remaining ingredients. Serve immediately as a dip or refrigerate to
  serve as a spread.
      Title: Cream Cheese Salsa Spread
 Categories: Dips, Condiments
   Servings:  1
      1 pk Regular or light cream
           -cheese (8 oz)
           PACE Picante Sauce
           Chopped fresh cilantro (opt)
  Place cream cheese on rimmed plate; let stand at room temperature about 30
  minutes to soften. Pour PACE Picante Sauce over and around cream cheese.
  Garnish with cilantro, if desired.
  Serve with vegetable dippers, crackers or chips.
      Title: Creamed Herring
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips, Seafood
   Servings:  4
      4 oz Pickled Herring *
    1/2 c  Apple, Tart, Finely Diced
      1 c  Sour Cream
      1 tb White Onion, Finely Diced
  * Pickled herring in sour cream.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Puree the herring (sauce and all) in a food processor or blender until
  smooth.  Add all the other ingredients and continue to process until
  smooth.  Cover and chill. Makes about 2 cups of dip. SUGGESTED DIPPERS:.
  Cocktail Rye Bread, Lavasch Crackers, Broccoli, Cherry Tomatoes, Zucchini
      Title: Creamed Lobster and Clams
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  6
      2    Green onions, sliced
      3 tb Butter
      3 tb Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Cayenne
  1 1/2 c  Half and half (Cream & milk)
      3 tb Dry white wine
    1/2 c  Cooked lobster
    1/2 c  Cooked clams, minced
           Pastry shells
      1 cn Mushrooms (4 1/2oz) drained
  In a saucepan, saute onion in butter until tender. Blend in flour, salt and
  cayenne. Add the half and half all at once. Cook, stirring constantly,
  until mixture is thick and bubbly. Add the wine, clams, lobster and button
  mushrooms. Heat through and serve in warm pastry shells.
      Title: Creamed Sweetbreads
 Categories: Appetizers, Beef, Veal
   Servings: 12
      1    Pair of sweetbreads
      1 c  Milk
      1 c  White sauce
      3    Eggs (hard cooked)
      2 tb Butter
           Patty or tart shells
  Soak the sweetbreads in cold water; drain and cover with the milk, bring to
  boiling point and simmer for 25 minutes. Cool, remove membrane and cut in
  small neat cubes. Make one cup of "white sauce" see next recipe....season
  it with 1 ts Worcestershire sauce 2 ts lemon juice 1/2 ts Salt 1/8 ts
  Pepper
      pn  Cayenne
  Force the yolks of the cooked eggs through a strainer. Cut the whites in
  long strips, and add to the sauce. Add the sweetbreads and butter. Bring to
  boiling point and serve in patty shells or tart shells.
      Title: Creamy Avocado with Bacon Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Pork
   Servings:  4
      1    Ripe Avocado
      1 ts Lemon Juice
    1/2 c  Sour Cream
    1/4 ts Onion Powder
    1/4 ts Hot Sauce
      2 tb Bacon, Crumbled, 2 strips,OR
      2 tb Imitation Bacon Bits
      2 tb Cucumber, Finely Diced
  Pit, peel, and mash the avocado with a fork.  Blend in the lemon juice,
  blending well and then add the sour cream, blending well.  Mix in all the
  rest of the ingredients, blending well.  Cover and chill.  Makes about
  1-1/4 cups of dip.  SUGGESTED DIPPERS: Green Bell Pepper, Bok Choy, Celery,
  Pita Bread, Radishes, Aged Cheddar Cheese, Cheese Crackers.
      Title: Creamy Cheese Fondue
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings:  6
      4 c  AMERICAN CHEESE,SHEDDED 16OZ
      1 tb ALL-PURPOSE FLOUR
      2 tb GREEN PEPPER,FINELY CHOPPED
      1 tb BUTTER
  1 1/4 c  DRY WHITE WINE
      6 oz CREAM CHEESE WITH CHIVES
      1 ts PREPARED MUSTARD
      1 pk BREADSTICKS/FRENCH BREAD
  COMBINE SHREEDE CHEESE AND FLOUR; SET ASIDE.  IN A SAUCEPAN COOK GREEN
  PEPPER IN BUTTER TILL TENDER BUT NOT BROWN.  STIR IN WINE; HEAT SLOWLY JUST
  TILL BUBBLING.  GRADUALLY ADD SHREDDED CHEESE, STIRRING CONSTANTLY, UNTIL
  SMOOTH AND BUBBLY.  STIR IN CREAM CHEESE AND MUSTARD; COOK AND STIR OVER
  LOW HEAT TILL SMOOTH.  TRANSFER CHEESE MIXTURE TO FONDUE POT.
      Title: Creamy Dijon Topped Potatoes
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings: 36
      1 pk Cream cheese (8 oz);
           -softened
    1/4 c  Dijon Mustard
      1 ts Dried basil
    1/3 c  Black olives; finely chopped
    1/4 c  Scallions; finely chopped
    1/4 c  Red Pepper; finely chopped
     18 sm Red skin potatoes; roasted
           -and cut in half lengthwise
           Scallion tips for garnish
  In medium bowl with electric mixer at medium speed, beat cream cheese,
  mustard and basil until smooth. Stir in olives, scallions and red pepper.
  To serve, pipe or spoon 1 tbs. mixture onto each potato half. Garnish with
  scallion tips and serve.
  Makes 3 dozen appetizers
  Source: Reader's Digest, April 1993
      Title: Creamy Pepper Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips, Cheese
   Servings:  1
      8 oz Cream Cheese, Softened
    1/3 c  Hot Pepper Rings, Chopped
      1 tb Liquid From Hot Pepper Rings
      2 tb Fine Chopped Onions
      2 tb Jelly, Apple or Orange *
      2 tb Celery, Finely Chopped
      2 tb Sweet Pepper, Chopped Fine
    1/4 c  Hot Pepper Rings (Garnish)
  * Orange Marmalade
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  In a medium bowl, stir in cream cheese until smooth.  Stir in remaining
  ingredients.  Cover; refrigerate until serving time, at least 2 hours.
  Garnish with pepper rings.  Serve with fresh vegetables or crackers for
  dipping.
      Title: Creamy Purple Onion and Basil Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese, Dips
   Servings:  6
      1 c  Cream Cheese, Softened
    1/4 c  Fresh Basil, Chopped, OR
      4 ts Dried Basil, Crushed
      1 c  Sour Cream
    1/4 c  Carrot, Shredded
    1/4 c  Purple Onion, Chopped
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Black Pepper
  Beat the cream cheese to a smooth consistency, gradually adding the basil.
  Blend in the sour cream and add the remaining ingredients, blending well.
  Cover and chill.  Makes about 2 1/2 cups of dip. SUGGESTED DIPPERS:
  Unsalted Potato Chips, Water Crackers, Green Bell Peppers, Mushrooms,
  Brussels Sprouts, Fennel, Smoked Deli Meats.
      Title: Creamy Shrimp Spread
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood, Spreads
   Servings:  8
      1    Gelatine, unflavored (envel)
    1/2 c  Milk, skim
      8 oz Yogurt, plain
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
      1 lb Shrimp, cleaned, cooked and
           Coarsely chopped
      1    Celery, chopped
    1/4 c  Cheese, Parmesan, grated
      1 tb Mustard, Dijon, prepared
      2 tb Dill, fresh, snipped
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
           Mixed salad greens (optional
  In small saucepan, sprinkle unflavored gelatine over milk; let stand 1
  minute.  Stir over low heat until gelatine is completely dissolved, about 3
  minutes.
  In large bowl, with wire whisk, thoroughly blend gelatine mixture, yogurt
  and mayonnaise.  Stir in remaining ingredients except salad greens.  Turn
  into 4-cup bowl or mold; chill until firm, about 3 hours.  Unmold onto
  salad greens.  Serve, if desired, on crackers or cocktail bread.  Makes 4
  cups spread.
      Title: Creamy Smoked Salmon and Dill Tart
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  6
      5    Sheet phyllo - thawed
      3 tb Unsalted butter - melted
      4 lg Egg yolks
      1 tb Dijon mustard - PLUS 1
           -teaspoon
      3 lg Eggs
      1 c  Half and half
      1 c  Whipping cream
      6 oz Smoked salmon - chopped
      4    Green onions - chopped
    1/4 c  Dill - fresh, chopped OR 1
           -T. dried dillweed
           Dill sprigs
  Calories     per serving:             Number of Servings:   6 Fat grams per
  serving:              Approx. Cook Time: Cholesterol per serving: Marks:
  *DIRECTIONS*
  Generously butter 9-1/2-inch diameter deep-dish pie plate. Place 1 phyllo
  sheet on work surface (cover remaining pieces with plastic wrap, then with
  clean damp towel).  Brush phyllo sheet with butter and fold in half
  lengthwise.  Brush folded surface with butter.  Cut in half crosswise.
  Place 1 phyllo rectangle, buttered side down, in prepared pie plate,
  covering bottom and letting pastry overhang 1 section of edge by 1/2-inch.
  Brush top of phyllo in pie plate with butter. Place second phyllo rectangle
  in pie plate, covering bottom and letting pastry overhang another section
  of edge by 1/2-inch; brush with butter. Repeat process with remaining 4
  phyllo sheets, making certain entire surface of edge is covered to form
  crust.  Fold overhang under to form crust edge flush with edge of pie
  plate. Brush crust edges with butter. (Can be prepared 4 hours ahead. Cover
  and refrigerate.) Preheat oven to 350F. Whisk yolks and mustard in medium
  bowl to blend. Beat in eggs, half and half, cream, salmon, onions and
  chopped dill. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Pour into prepared
  crust.  Bake until center is set, about 50 minutes. Transfer to rack. Cool.
  Garnish with dill sprigs and serve slightly warm or at room temperature.
  NOTE:  Purchased phyllo pastry is used here instead of a regular pie crust
  for quick and easy assembly.  This tart is best when served at room
  temperature.
  Recipe from Bon Appetit, April, 1991.
      Title: Creamy Tarragon Dip
 Categories: Dips
   Servings: 10
      1 pk Cream cheese,softened(8oz)
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
    1/4 c  Milk
      4 ts Tarragon vinegar
      1 ts Sugar
    3/4 ts Tarragon
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
           Carrot sticks
           Chinese pea pods
           Romaine lettuce leaves
           Cauliflowerets
           Zucchini slices
  1. In blender at low speed or in food processor with knife blade attached,
  blend first 8 ingredients until smooth. Pour mixture into small bowl. Cover
  and refrigerate.
  2. To serve, line a large basket with a deep dish or foil. Arrange
  vegetables and bowl of dip in basket. If dip becomes too thick upon
  refrigeration, stir in a little milk until it reaches dripping consistency.
      Title: Crispy Chicken Nuggets
 Categories: Appetizers, Chicken
   Servings: 48
---------------------------INGREDIENTS--------------------------------
           Vegetable oil for frying
    1/2 c  Milk
    1/4 c  Flour
    1/4 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
      1 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Oregano
    1/4 ts Dry mustard
  2 1/2 lb Chicken breasts, skinless
           -boneless, 1 inch pieces
  1.  In a large frying pan or deep fat fryer, heat 1 inch of oil to 350F.
  2.  Meanwhile, put milk in a bowl.  In a paper bag, mix together flour,
  parmesan cheese, paprika, oregano, and mustard.  First dip chicken pieces
  in milk, then place about a dozen pieces of chicken at a time in a gab and
  shake to coat.
  3.  Fry chicken in hot oil in batches without crowding, turning
  occasionally for about 5 minutes, until crisp and golden brown.  Drain on
  paper towels.  Serve hot.
  From:  365 Ways to Cook Chicken
      Title: Croutes Au Fromage
 Categories: Cheese, Appetizers
   Servings: 46
  1 1/2 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Cayenne Pepper
      6 tb Unsalted Butter *
      1 c  Sharp Cheddar Cheese, Coarse
      3 tb Heavy Cream
      1 lg Egg, Beaten Lightly
  1 1/2 c  Swiss Cheese, Fine Shredded
      3 tb Butter, Softened
  * Butter should be cut into small bits.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Into a bowl, sift together the flour, salt, and cayenne.  Blend in the
  butter and Cheddar cheese.  Stir in the cream, stirring until the mixture
  forms dough.  Chill, wrapped in wax paper, for 2 hours.  Roll out dough
  1/16-inch thick on a lightly floured surface and cut into rounds, using a
  1-1/2-inch cutter.  Reroll scraps and cut out more rounds.  Arrange on
  baking sheets, brush them lighly with the egg, and bake in the middle of a
  preheated 450øF oven for 5-7 minutes, or until browned lightly.  In a small
  container, cream together the Swiss cheese and softened butter. Arrange
  half the rounds, bottom sides up, on baking sheets.  Divide the cheese
  mixture among them.  Make sandwiches by pressing the remaining rounds on
  top and pressing lightly.  Bake the croutes in the 450øF oven for 4
  minutes, or until the cheese is just melted.  Makes 46 croutes. A Gourmet
  Magazine 1969 Favorite.
      Title: Croutes Au Fromage (Cheese Pastries)
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings: 46
  1 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Cayenne
    3/4    Stick (6 tablespoons) cold
           -unsalted butter, cut into
           -bits,
           Plus 3 tablespoons, softened
      1 c  Coarsely grated sharp
           -Cheddar
      3 tb Heavy cream
      1 lg Egg, beaten lightly
  1 1/2 c  Finely shredded Swiss cheese
  from 1969
  Into a bowl sift together the flour, the salt, and the cayenne, blend in
  the 6 tablespoons butter and the Cheddar, and stir in the cream, stirring
  until the mixture forms a dough. Chill the dough, wrapped in wax paper, for
  2 hours.
  Roll out the dough 1/16 inch thick on a lightly floured surface and using a
  1 1/2 inch round cutter cut out rounds, rerolling the scraps and cutting
  out additional rounds. Arrange the rounds on baking sheets, brush them
  lightly with the egg, and bake them in batches in the middle of a preheated
  450~ F. oven for 5 to 7 minutes, or until they are browned lightly. The
  pastry rounds may be made 2 days in advance and kept in an airtight
  container.
  In a small bowl cream together well the Swiss cheese and the remaining 3
  tablespoons butter. Arrange half the pastry rounds, bottom sides up, on
  baking sheets, divide the cheese mixture among them, and sandwich the
  mixture with the remaining pastry rounds, pressing the rounds together
  lightly. Bake the croutes in the preheated 450~ F. oven for 4 minutes, or
  until the cheese is just melted. Makes about 46 croutes.
  Source: Gourmet magazine, January 1991 - favorite recipes from old issues
      Title: Crunchy Hot Crab Bites
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings: 16
  1 1/2 c  Crab mead, drained, all bits
           -of shell removed
      1 tb Fresh lime or lemon muice
    1/2 ts Grated lime peel
      1    Green onion, minced
      2 tb Minced parsley
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
      1 ts Hot prepared mustard (or to
           -taste)
           Several dashes of liquid
           -hot-pepper sauce (or to
           -taste)
      2 tb Unsalted butter, melted
     16    Melba toast rounds
    1/2 c  Grated Swiss or sharp
           -Cheddar cheese
  Simple to prepare ans serve. If you like, use tuna, small cooked shrimp or
  even deviled ham in place of the crab.
  Preheat broiler. Combine crab, lime or lemon juice, lime peel, green onion,
  parsley, Worcestershire sauce, mustard and hot-pepper sauce. Taste and
  adjust seasonings. Brush melted butter on toast rounds and arrange in a
  single layerin a broiler pan. Top each round with a portion of the crab
  mixture, then with 1-1/2 tsp cheese. Broil until cheese is melted and crab
  mixture is hot. Makes 16 appetizers.
  Source: _Hotter than Hell_ by Jane Butler  ISBN 0-89586-542-4
      Title: Crunchy Stuffed Eggs
 Categories: Eggs, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      6    Eggs, hard-cooked
    1/4 c  Commercial sour cream
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper, coarsely ground
      1 ts Parsley flakes
      2    Bacon slices, cooked and
           -crumbled
           Paprika
      6    Pimiento-stuffed olives,
           -halved
  Peel eggs; slice in half lengthwise, and carefully remove yolks. Mash yolks
  and stir in sour cream, salt, pepper, and parsley flakes; mix until smooth.
  Stir in bacon. Stuff egg whites with yolk mixture; sprinkle with paprika,
  and top with an olive half.
  Shared by: June Hoffman, 8/93
      Title: Crustless Quiche
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
    1/4 lb Butter
    1/2 c  Flour
      6    Eggs
      3 oz Cream cheese, softened
      1 c  Milk
      2 c  Cottage cheese
      1 lb Monterey jack cheese, cubed
      1 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Sugar
  Melt butter in small saucepan, add flour and cook until smooth.  Beat eggs,
  add milk, cheeses, baking powder, salt, sugar and butter-flour mixture.
  Stir until well blended.  Pour into well greased 9x13x2" pan. Bake,
  uncovered, at 350 degrees for 45 minutes. (From "Holiday Falderah"
  cookbook, by Jackie Olden)
      Title: Crustless Spinach Mushroom Quiche
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings: 16
      6 oz Mushrooms; sliced
     10 oz Spinach; fresh, washed and
           -stems removed
      2    Eggs
      1 ct Cholesterol-free egg replace
           -ment; liquid (8 oz.)
    1/2 c  Parmesan cheese; grated
    1/2 c  Skim milk
      1 ts Tarragon; fresh (or 1/2 tsp
           -dried)
    1/2 ts Black pepper; freshly
           -ground
    1/4 ts Salt
  1.  Preheat oven to 375 F.  Lightly coat an 8-inch pie pan with non-stick
  cooking spray. 2. In a 3-quart saucepan cook the mushrooms and spinach
  until wilted, about 4 to 5 minutes. Drain mushrooms in a colander, and
  squeeze spinach to remove excess moisture. Chop spinach lightly, and set
  mushrooms and spinach aside. 3. In a medium-sized bowl whisk together the
  eggs and defrosted egg replacement, then stir in the grated cheese, milk,
  tarragon, pepper and salt. Add the mushrooms and spinach, and mix well. 4.
  Pour the egg-vegetable mixture into the pie pan, and bake for 30 minutes on
  middle oven shelf.  Let cool for 10 minutes to set before cutting. Cut into
  16 wedges. Yield: Makes 16 thin wedges. Each serving has approximately 55
  calories, 4.7 g. protein, 3.3 g. total fat (1.9 g. unsaturated fat, 1.1 g.
  saturated fat), 2.2 g. carbohydrates, 29 mg. cholesterol, 0.8 g. fiber, 145
  mg. sodium, 84 mg. calcium. Exchanges per serving: 2/3 meat, 1/2 vegetable.
      Title: Cucumber Dill Dip #1
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings:  4
      1 md Cucumber
    1/4 ts White Pepper
  1 1/2 c  Mayonnaise
    3/4 c  Sour Cream
    1/4 c  Green Bell Pepper, Diced
      2 tb Fresh Dill, Chopped, OR
      2 ts Dried Dill, Crushed
  Peel, seed and finely dice the cucumber.  Using a colander, squeeze out any
  excess water from the cucumber chunks.  Place in a bowl and blend will with
  the pepper and dill.  Blend in the remaining ingredients and mix
  thoroughly.  Cover and chill.  Makes about 3 cups of dip. SUGGESTED
  DIPPERS:  Broccoli, Cauliflower, Radishes, Carrots, Onion Crackers.
      Title: Cucumber Dill Dip #2
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  1
      8 oz Cream Cheese, Softened
      1 c  Miracle Whip
      2 md Cucumbers *
      2 tb Sliced Green Onion
      1 tb Lemon Juice
      2 ts Snipped Fresh Dill Or
    1/2 ts Dried Dill Weed
    1/2 ts Tabasco Sauce
  * Cucumbers should be peeled, seeded and chopped.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Beat cream cheese until smooth.  Stir in remaining ingredients until well
  blended.  Cover and chill until serving time.  Makes 2-1/2 cups.  From: Los
  Angeles Times.
      Title: Cucumber Dip with Pita Crisps
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  2
      3    (6 ot 7 inch) whole wheat
           -pocket (pita) breads
    3/4 c  Lowfat plain yogurt
      2 tb Light sour cream
      1    Garlic clove, minced
      1    Cucumber, peeled and
           -shredded (about 2 cups)
      1 tb Chopped fresh mint leaves
      2 ts Chopped fresh cilantro
           -(Chinese parsley or fresh
           -coriander)
  Info:  from Pillsbury's Fast and Easy Magazine, July/August 1993 posted by
  Perry Lowell, RECIPE_CORNER, July 1993
  Nutrition Information:      1/12 of recipe
  Heat oven to 375 degrees (F).  Split each pocket bread into 2 rounds.  Cut
  each round into eighths to make 48 triangles. Place rough side up on
  ungreased cookie sheets. Bake at 375 degrees (F) for 6 to 8 minutes or
  until crisp. Cool completely.
  Meanwhile, in small bowl combine all remaining ingredients and mix well.
  Serve with pita crisps.
  Makes 2 cups of dip.
      Title: Cucumber Ring with Chicken Filling
 Categories: Chicken, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      2    Cucumbers, peeled and finely
           -grated
      1    Small onion, finely grated
      4 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Fresh parsley, chopped
      1 tb Fresh tarragon, chopped or 1
           -1/2 tsp dried
      3 tb Mediu,-dry sherry
      2 tb Plus 1 tsp gelatin
      2 c  Chicken stock
           Salt and pepper
           Filling:
  1 1/4 c  Shredded chicken
      1 c  Chopped celery
      1    Finely chopped scallion
      2 tb Lemon juice
      3 tb Mayonnaise
  salt and pepper
  In large bowl, thoroughly mix cucumber, onion, lemon juice, parsley and
  tarragon.  Pour sherry into medium-size bowl, sprinkle in the gelatin, let
  soften for a few minutes.  Bring stock to boil, pour over gelatin and stir
  until dissolved, then turn into cucumber mixture, mix thoroughly, season to
  taste, pour into 5 cup ring mold, chill until set.  Prepare filling by
  combining all ingredients and mixing well. Turn cucumber mold out onto dish
  and fill center with chicken salad. Serve with rounds of toast or hot
  crunchy bread.
  Serves 6 - 8
  This refreshing dish even tastes as if it is good for you.  A most
  appropriate starter (or even a light lunch dish, served with a salad), for
  Pisces, the most fluid of all the water signs, who will naturally respond
  to the rhythmic curves suggested by this shimmering form.
      Title: Cucumber Stuffed with Roquefort and Hazelnuts
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      1    Cucumber cut in half
           -crosswise
    1/4 lb Roquefort cheese
      1 tb Cream
      1 ts Lime juice
    1/2 ts Ground white pepper
    1/2 ts Caraway seeds
     15    Hazelnuts, peeled and finely
           -chopped
     12    Hazelnuts, peeled and
           -halved.
  Hollow out the seeds and about a 3/4 inch diameter column from the middle
  of both halves of the cucumber.  Pat them dry with paper towels and
      Title: Cucumber Tea Sandwiches with Mint Mayonnaise
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings: 32
      2 lg Egg yolks
    1/2 ts Dijon mustard
      2 tb Fresh lemon juice
    3/4 c  Fresh mint leaves, loosely
           -packed
      1 c  Vegetable oil
           Salt and pepper
     16    Thin slices homemade white
           -bread, crusts removed
      1    Cucumber, peeled and thinly
           -sliced
  From Cooking with Herbs by Emelie Tolley and Chris Mead.
  MINT MAYONNAISE
  In a blender or food processor, combine the egg yolks, mustard, lemon
  juice, and mint.  With motor running, add the oil in a slow stream and
  blend until emulsified.  Season to taste with salt and pepper and transfer
  to a bowl.
  Spread each slice of bread generously on one side with the mayonnaise. On
  half the slices, arrange an even layer of cucumber slices.  Top with
  remaining bread slices.  Cut each sandwich into quarters before serving.
  Makes 32 tea sandwiches.
      Title: Cucumbers in Yogurt
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      1    Hothouse cucumber
           Salt
     16 oz Plain yogurt
      3 tb Minced fresh basil
      2 tb Minced fresh mint
      1 tb Minced green onion
      1 sm Clove minced garlic
           Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
  Cut cucumber into 1/8-inch-slices, place in colander and sprinkle with
  salt. Drain 30 minutes.
  Rinse cucumber and pat dry. Combine yogurt, basil, mint, onion and garlic
  in medium bowl. Blend in cucumber, salt and pepper. Refrigerate at least 1
  hour. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead.)
      Title: Curried Almonds
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  4
      8 oz Blanched almonds
      2 tb Mango chutney
      1 ts Turmeric
      1 ts Curry powder
  Heat oven to 350F.
  Mix together the mango chutney, turmeric & curry powder.  Mix in the
  almonds, ensuring that they become well coated.  Spread them on a non-stick
  baking sheet.  Bake for 10 minutes.  Spread them no plates to cool.
  Store almonds in covered containers & add them to salads or serve with
  drinks.
  Gail Duff, "A Book of Herbs & Spices"
      Title: Curried Chicken Liver Pate
 Categories: Appetizers, Chicken
   Servings:  6
    3/4 c  Butter
      1    Onion, finely chopped
      1    Garlic clove, chopped
      8 oz Chicken livers
      2 ts Curry powder
    1/2 c  Chicken stock
      2    Hard-boiled eggs, shelled
           Salt to taste
           Fresh ground pepper to taste
      2 pn Cayenne pepper
           Fresh bay leaves (opt)
           Lemon slices (opt)
           Crusty bread
  Melt 1/2 of butter in a skillet. Add onion, garlic and chicken livers and
  cook gently 5 minutes, stirring constantly.
  Stir in curry powder and cook 1 minute. Add chicken stock and cook gently 5
  minutes, stirring and turning livers frequently. In a blender or food
  processor, process chicken liver mixture and hard-boiled eggs to a smooth
  puree.
  Add salt, pepper and cayenne pepper. Turn mixture into a serving dish or
  terrine. Smooth surface. Melt remaining butter in a saucepan and pour over
  surface of pate. Let set slightly, then garnish with bay leaves and lemon
  pieces, if desired. Chill several hours or overnight before serving with
  bread.
  VARIATION: Add curry powder to taste to melted butter topping.
      Title: Curried Chutney Spread
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
           Jim Vorheis
     16 oz Cream cheese
    1/2 c  Major Grey's chutney
    1/2 c  Chopped almonds, toasted
      1 ts Curry powder
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
  Bring cream cheese to room temperature.  Mix all ingredients together well.
  Pack in a crock.  Chill.  Serve with crackers or use spread to stuff dates
  or celery.
  Colorado Cache Cookbook (1978) From the collection of Jim Vorheis
      Title: Curried Egg Dip for Shrimp
 Categories: Eggs, Dips
   Servings:  1
      1 c  Mayonnaise
      1    Hard Cooked Egg *
      1 ts Ground Ginger
      1    Clove Garlic
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Chopped Green Onion & Tops
      1 ts Curry Powder
      1 ts Lemon Juice
           Cooked Shrimp
  * Very finely chopped.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Mix together thoroughly the mayonnaise, chopped egg and ginger.  Peel
  garlic and crush thoroughly with the salt (or mash garlic and mix with
  salt, or add separately).  Add garlic and salt, onion, curry powder and
  lemon juice, blend well.  Put in small bowl surrounded by critters.  Also
  good with crackers.
      Title: Curried Garlic Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings:  4
      1 c  Plain Yogurt
      1 c  Sour Cream
      1 ts Dry Mustard
      2 ts Curry Powder
      2 ts Garlic Powder
  Add each ingredient in the order listed, blending constantly until all are
  well blended and the mixture is smooth.  Cover and chill. Makes about 2
  cups of dip. SUGGESTED DIPPERS: Zucchini, Mushrooms, Cherry Tomatoes, Deli
  Meats, Chicken Drumettes.
      Title: Curried Lentil Pate
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      2 tb Safflower or peanut oil
      1 md Onion, chopped
      2    Cloves garlic, minced or put
           -through press
      2 ts Curry powder
    1/4 ts Turmeric
    1/4 ts Chili powder
    1/2 ts Cumin seeds
      1 c  Dried lentils, washed and
           -picked over
      2    To 2 1/2 cups water
      1 ts Sea salt
      2    Eggs
    1/4 c  Milk
    1/4 ts Ground ginger
  From "Gourmet Vegetarian Feasts" by Martha Rose Shulman
  OR 1/2 teaspoon grated fresh ginger Freshly ground black pepper, to taste
  1.  Heat vegetable or peanut oil in heavy bottomed saucepan or soup pot and
  add onion, garlic and spices and saute gently until onion is tender, adding
  more oil if necessary
  2.  Add lentils and water, bring to boil, add salt, cover, reduce heat, and
  simmer 1 hour or until tender.  Add more liquid if necessary. Remove from
  heat and drain.
  3.  Preheat oven to 400F.
  4.  Puree lentils in blender or food processor with remaining ingredients.
  Adjust seasonings and pour into a buttered pate terrine or casserole. Cover
  and bake for 50 to 60 minutes.  Cool and refrigerate, or serve warm. This
  can be frozen.
  Makes 6 servings.
  Posted by Mimi Taylor.
      Title: Curried Peanuts
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
           Jim Vorheis
      1 c  Roasted, salted, blanched
           -peanuts
      1 ts Curry powder
    1/2 ts Seasoned salt
    1/8 ts Garlic powder
  Combine spices and mix with peanuts.  Spread on cookie sheet and roast at
  350 F for 5 minutes.
  Colorado Cache Cookbook (1978) From the collection of Jim Vorheis
      Title: Curried Shrimp Phyllo Bundles
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings: 24
    1/3 c  Plain yogurt
    1/4 c  Coconut
    1/4 c  Finely chopped unsalted
           -peanuts
      2 tb Chopped chutney
      1 ts Curry powder
    1/2 ts Grated gingerroot or 1/4 tsp
           -ground ginger
      4 oz Can tiny shrimp, drained
      6    Sheets frozen phyllo dough
           -(16 x 12 inches), thawed
    1/2 c  Margarine or butter, melted
  Filling: In a small mixing bowl stir together yogurt, cocnut, peanuts,
  chutney, curry powder, and gingerroot or ginger.  Gently stir in shrimp.
  Unfold phyllo dough.  Place one sheet of phyllo dough on a
  waxed-paper-lined cutting board.  Cover remaining sheets with a damp paper
  towel or cloth.  Keep covered to prevent drying.  Generously brush with
  some of the margarine or butter.  Top with another sheet of phyllo, then
  brush with more of the margarine or butter.  Repeat with a third sheet of
  phyllo and margarine or butter.
  Using a sharp knife, cut the stack of buttered phyllo sheets into twelve
  4-inch squares.  Place about 2 teaspoons of the filling in the center of
  each square.  For each bundle, bring the 4 corners together; 1 pinch and
  twist slightly.
  Repeat with the remaining phyllo dough, margarine or butter, and filling to
  make 24 bundles total.  Arrange bundles on an ungreased parchment- or
  foil-lined baking sheet.
  Bake, uncovered, in a 375 degree F oven for 18 to 20 minutes or till
  golden.  Serve immediately.  Makes 24 bundles.
  To freeze: Prepare phyllo bundles as directed, except do not bake. Freeze
  the unbaked bundles on a baking sheet. Transfer to a storage container;
  seal, label, and place in the freezer.  To serve, place frozen bundles on a
  parchment- or foil-lined baking sheet.  Bake, uncovered, in a 375 degree F
  oven for 18 to 20 minutes or till golden.
  From:  FESTIVE FINGER FOOD, Better Homes and Gardens, 11/90 Posted by:
  Karin Brewer, Cooking Echo, 6/92
      Title: Curried Vegetable Dip
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  6
      2 c  Mayonnaise
      3 tb Catsup
      3 tb Honey
      3 tb Grated onion
      1 ts Lemon juice
      8    Drops Tabasco sauce
  1 1/2 ts Curry powder
  Mix all ingredients together and refrigerate 24 hours before serving. Serve
  with fresh vegetables.
      Title: Curried Yogurt Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Spreads
   Servings:  4
    3/4 c  Plain Yogurt
      2 ts Curry Powder
      1 ts Lemon Juice
    1/2 ts Honey
    1/4 ts Black Pepper
    1/8 ts Hot Pepper Sauce
  GARNISH: Finely chopped almonds or walnuts, optional.  In a bowl, combine
  ingredients, stirring well.  Spoon into serving bowl.  If possible allow to
  set for 30 minutes at room temperature before serving.  Garnish.  Makes 1
  cup.  Serve with fresh vegetables or pita crisps.
      Title: Curry Cream Mussels
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  4
      2 lb Mussels, cleaned
    2/3 c  Water
    2/3 c  Dry cider
      3    Sprigs fresh thyme
      1    Garlic clove, crushed
      2 tb Butter
      3    Shallots, finely chopped
      1    Stalk celery, finely chopped
      1 tb Curry Powder
      1 tb All-purpose flour
    1/4 c  Half-and-half
    1/4 c  Mayonnaise
           Fresh dill sprigs (opt)
           Hot crusty bread
  Place cleaned mussels in a saucepan with water, cider, thyme and garlic.
  Cover and cook over high heat, shaking pan frequently, 6-7 minutes or until
  shells open. Discard any mussels which remain closed. Cool mussels in
  liquid. Drain off cooled liquid, strain through a fine sieve and reserve.
  Discard thyme. Remove a half shell from each mussel and arrange mussels on
  4 serving plates.
  Melt butter in a saucepan. Add shallots and celery and cook gently 5
  minutes. Add Curry Powder and flour and cook 1 minute. Stir in 1 cup of
  reserved liquid. Bring to a boil, stirring constantly. Cover and cook
  gently 10 minutes, stirring frequently. Cool. Stir in half-and-half and
  mayonnaise and mix well. Spoon sauce over mussels and garnish with dill
  sprigs, if desired. Serve with bread.
      Title: Curry Dip #1
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  6
      1 c  Hellman's Mayo
      1 ts Curry powder
      1 ts Garlic salt
      2 ts Fresh grated onion
      1 ts Horseradish
      1 ts Tarragon vinegar
  Mix in order given.  Chill several hours or overnight.  The flavor will get
  better.
  Good with cauliflower, carrots, celery, etc.
      Title: Curry Dip #2
 Categories: Dips, Appetizers
   Servings:  4
      1 qt Mayonnaise (No Dressing)
      1 ds Worcestershire Sauce
      3    Green Onions (Chopped)
           Crazy Salt
           Black Pepper
      1 tb Curry Powder
           Seasonings
  Mix all ingredients together and serve with fresh vegetables.  Let stand in
  refrigerator for 1 hour before serving; tastes better chilled.
      Title: Curry Lime Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings:  4
      4 tb Lime Juice
      2 tb Dijon Mustard
      1 ts Garlic, Minced
      1 c  Mayonnaise
           Cayenne Pepper To Taste
      1 tb Curry Powder
  Mix the lime juice and mustard, blending well.  Add the garlic.  Whisk in
  the mayonnaise and then blend in the spices, blending until almost smooth.
  Cover and chill.  Makes about 1-1/2 cups of dip. SUGGESTED DIPPERS: Chicken
  Drumettes, Onion Crackers, Chicory, Cauliflower.
      Title: Curry Puffs
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  3
      1    Recipe for two-crust pastry
      2 c  Finely chopped cooked lamb
      1 tb Curry powder
      1 tb Syrup from chutney
      1 ts Season all
    1/4 c  Condensed cream of mushroom
           -soup, undiluted
  Crisp little bite sized pastried filled with an exotic curry meat stuffing,
  caled "Samosas" in India.
  fat for deep fat frying
  Make pastry using your favorite recipe or package mix.  Roll thin.  Cut out
  circles using a round cookie cutter 3 inches in diameter.  Mix together
  remaining ingredients.  Place 1 heaping teaspoon of the mixture on each
  circle of dough. Fold over to make a semicircle; thoroughly seal edges by
  pressing with the tines of a fork. Fry in deep fat, 375 F, 4 minutes or
  until golden brown.  You may make these ahead of time and heat in oven when
  ready to serve.  Makes about 3 dozen.
  Source:  Spices of the World Cookbook by McCormick Shared by: Sharon
  Stevens
      Title: Dallas Cowboy Tacos
 Categories: Appetizers, Pork, Cheese
   Servings:  3
      1    Sausage (Medium Roll)
      1 c  Velveeta Cheese
    1/2 c  Onion (Chopped)
      2 cn Crescent Rolls
  Cook sausage over medium heat until well browned; drain.  Stir in the
  onions and also brown.  When completed, open can of rolls and stretch the
  dough until thin without splitting or tearing.  In the wide part of the
  dough, add the sausage and onion mixture, put cheese on top of that.  Then
  roll the dough as you would a regular cresent roll.  Make sure you pinch
  all the open areas closed.  Bake in preheated oven at 375øF for 10 to 12
  minutes.
      Title: Date Fried Won Ton
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      1 lb Pitted dates, cut fine
    1/2 c  Walnut meats, cut fine
           Won Ton Wrappers
  1)    Combine dates and walnuts. 2) Place 1 TEASpoon of mixture on one
  corner of Won Ton wrapper 3) Wrap as for coconut candy won ton and fry in
  deep hot oil until golden brown. 4) An american version is to roll
  date'filled Won ton while hot in powdered sugar. 5) A delicious Won Ton
  wrapper may be made by mixing together 1 pound of cooked mashed sweet
  potatoes, cooled, and 1 cup of flour. 6)  Work into a stiff dough.  Pinch
  off a piece of dough the size of a walnut and roll very thin.
      Title: Daube Glace
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
           Jim Vorheis
 21 1/2 oz Consomme
    1/2 cn Water
    1/2    Lemon, cut in half
      1 tb Vinegar
    1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
    3/4 ts Worcestershire sauce
      2    Stalks celery, cut in
           -eighths
      1    Onion, cut in quarters
    1/2    Green pepper, cut in half
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Tabasco sauce
      1    Clove garlic
      2 pk Unflavored gelatin
    1/2 c  Water
      1 lb Left-over pot roast
           Mayonnaise for garnish
  In a large covered pot, simmer consomme, 1/2 can water, lemon, vinegar,
  cayenne, Worcestershire, celery, onion, green pepper, salt, Tabasco sauce
  and garlic for 1 1/2 hours.  Melt the gelatin in 1/2 cup water in a
  saucepan.  Shred pot roast and add to gelatin. Strain the stock through a
  colander, add the meat-gelatin mixture and pour into an 8x8 inch pan. Chill
  Before gelatin has completely set, mix meat through so it is evenly
  distributed.  Chill thoroughly.  Cut into squares and serve on a lettuce
  leaf with a dollop of mayonnaise.
  Note: This may also be served for luncheon or as a hot weather dinner with
  fresh fruit and rolls or French bread.
  Colorado Cache Cookbook (1978) From the collection of Jim Vorheis
      Title: Deep Fried Squid Rings
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      2 lb Squid
    1/2 c  Flour
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      2    Eggs
      1 c  Milk
  1 1/2 c  Italian bread crumbs
  Cut 2 the cleaned squid body sacks into 1/2" wide rings.  Rinse well under
  cold running water.  In deep fryer heat oil to 375.  In plastic bag combine
  flour, salt & pepper.  Add a few squid rings at a time, shake until well
  coated.  In a shallow bowl combine 2 eggs and 1 cup milk (beaten). Dip
  squid in liquid then in about 1-1/2 Cups Italian Bread Crumbs.
  Fry a few at a time about 45 seconds or until golden brown. Drain and keep
  warm.  Serve with cocktail sauce or tartar sauce.
  NEW JERSEY SEAFOOD ADVISORY
      Title: Deluxe Salmon Spread
 Categories: Dips, Appetizers, Entertain, Seafood
   Servings:  4
      1 lb Cooked Canned Salmon
      1 c  Mayonnaise
      2 tb Green Pepper (Diced)
      2 tb Pimento Diced
      2 ts Lemon Juice
      1 ts Tarragon Vinegar
      1 ts Horseradish
      1 ts Chopped Dried Dill
  Put mayonnaise, pepper and pimento into blender on low until smooth.  Turn
  into bowl with rest of ingredients.  Mix well.  Chill.  Serve with brown
  bread.
      Title: Desperation Diet Dip
 Categories: Cheese, Dips
   Servings:  6
      1 pt Low-cal cottage cheese
      3 lg Cloves of fresh garlic,
           -minced
  1 1/2 tb Finely chopped parsley
      1 tb Mayonnaise
      1 tb Wine vinegar
  Another of my recipes.  This one goes well when you're feeding people who
  are ready to party, but are also trying to diet. Has a very nice garlicky
  tang to it.  Use it either with raw vegetables or any kind of cracker or
  diet cracker.
  «     tsp Italian seasoning Salt and pepper to taste
  Mix all the ingredients together (you can even beat this mixture until
  smooth if you're going to be dipping things like cauliflower in it).
  Replace in the cottage cheese container. Cover and refrigerate for at least
  an hour and preferably overnight. At party time, remove from refrigerator
  and serve either picnic-style in the cottage cheese container or put in a
  bowl for serving.  Sprinkle a bit of paprika on the top for color.
      Title: Deviled Crab Quiche
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  8
      2 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Chili seasoning
    1/4 c  Cold margarine, diced
    1/4 c  Lard, diced
    1/2 c  Finely grated Cheddar cheese
      3 tb Cold water
      6 sl Bacon, chopped
      2    Onion, chopped
      4 oz Crabmeat, flaked
      3    Eggs
    2/3 c  Half-and-half
    1/2 ts Mustard powder
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
           Salt to taste
           Tomato slices (opt)
           Italian parsley sprigs (opt)
  Preheat oven to 400'F. (205'C.). In a bowl, combine flour, salt and chili
  seasoning. Cut in margarine and lard until mixture resembles bread crumbs.
  Add cheese and mix well. Stir in cold water and mix to form a fairly firm
  dough. Knead gently on a floured surface and roll out pastry. Set a 10"
  flouted flan pan with a removable bottom on a baking sheet. Press pastry
  into flutes and trim edge neatly. Prick base with a fork. Line pastry with
  waxed paper and fill with dried beans.
  Bake 15 minutes. Remove waxed paper and beans and bake 5-10 minutes more or
  until dry and lightly golden. Fry bacon 3 minutes. Add onion; cook 2
  minutes. Remove from heat; mix with crabmeat. Spoon mixture into flan
  shell. Whisk eggs, half-and-half, mustard, cayenne and salt. Pour into flan
  shell. Bake 30-35 minutes or until set and lightly golden. Garnish with
  tomato and parsley, if desired, and serve warm or cold.
      Title: Deviled Eggs
 Categories: Eggs, Appetizers
   Servings:  4
      3 lg Hard Cooked Eggs
      2 tb Mayo Or Salad Dressing
    1/2 ts Prepared Mustard
      1 ds Pepper
  Cut eggs lengthwise into halves.  Slip out yolks and mash with a fork. Mix
  in remaining ingredients.  Fill the eggs with yolk mixture, heaping it up
  lightly.
      Title: Deviled Ham Puffs
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
     30    Bread croutes 5 cm
           Deviled ham paste
      1    Onion, finely chopped
      2 ts Butter
    125 g  Cream cheese
      1 c  Grated cheese
      1    Egg yolk
      2 ts Chives
  1.   spread each croute with ham paste
  2.   saute onions in butter for 2 minutes, allow to cool.
  3.   beat the cream cheese until smooth, add next 3 ingredients and beat
  until well combined.  spread on top of ham paste.
  4.   bake at 200 degrees c for 10 minutes or until golden brown and heated.
  serve immediately.
  TO MAKE CROUTES
  1.   cut bread circles from sliced bread with a 5 cm scone cutter.
  2.   brush both sides of each croute with melted butter and place on scone
  tray.
  3.   bake at 200 degrees c for 10 minutes or until golden brown, turning
  during cooking time.  cool and store in an airtight container.
      Title: Deviled Rock Lobster or Crab
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  6
    1/4 lb Butter
      1    Med. onion, grated
      2 ts Dried mustard
      1    Dash Tabasco sauce
      1    Juice of 1 lemon
      8    Lobster tails OR;
      1 lb Lump crabmeat
      4 tb Flour, heaping
      2 c  Milk
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Sherry
      2 tb Parmesan cheese
  Deviled Rock Lobster or Crab
  Servings:  6
  This  recipe is equally good with lump crabmeat,  or using  the frozen
  lobster tails;  whichever is available. Melt butter, add onion which has
  been grated along with onion juice.  Cook a few minutes until onion is
  tender.  Add dried mustard,  salt,  then flour. Slowly add milk and make
  your cream sauce.  Allow your sauce to thicken, stirring constantly, and
  then add all  the other ingredients. Serve this in flaky pastry shells.
  This will serve six.
  "Talk About Good" Published by the Junior League of Lafayette, LA.
  Submitted by Mrs. Robert A. Chenoweth.
      Title: Deviled Smelt
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  4
     12 oz Smelt, thawed if frozen
    1/4 c  All-purpose flour
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Dry mustard
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
    1/2 ts Paprika
      1    Finely grated lemon peel
           Vegetable oil for frying
      2 tb Chopped fresh parsley
           Lemon wedges
           Lemon peel strips (opt)
           Fresh dill sprig (opt)
  Rinse smelt under cold running water. Pat dry on paper towels.
  In a plastic bag, combine flour, salt, mustard, cayenne pepper, paprika and
  lemon peel. Add smelt and shake well until fish are evenly coated. Half
  fill a deep-fat fryer or saucepan with oil; heat to 375'F. (190'C.) or
  until a 1/2" cube of day-old bread browns in 40 seconds.
  Place 1/2 of smelt in a frying basket. Lower basket gradually into hot oil
  and fry 1 minute, shaking basket frequently. Drain on paper towels. Reheat
  oil to 375'F. (190'C.). Repeat with remaining smelt. Place all of smelt
  into basket and fry 1-2 minutes more or until lightly golden and crisp.
  Drain on paper towels. Turn into a warm serving dish, sprinkle with chopped
  parsley and serve hot with lemon wedges. Garnish with lemon peel strips and
  dill sprigs, if desired.
      Title: Deviled Tomatoes
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  4
      4    Firm tomatoes
      2 tb Butter
      1 sm Garlic clove, crushed
    1/2 c  Fresh white bread crumbs
      1 tb Chopped fresh parsley
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
    1/2 ts Paprika
    1/4 ts Dry mustard
      1 tb Grated Parmesan cheese
           Salt to taste
           Fresh parsley sprigs
  Preheat oven to 350'F. (175'C.). Grease a 9" square baking pan. Cut 1/3
  slice off top of each tomato.
  Reserve tops for 'lids'. Remove seeds from each tomato. Melt butter in a
  saucepan. Add garlic, bread crumbs and chopped parsley; mix well.
  Remove from heat. Add cayenne pepper, paprika, mustard, cheese and salt;
  mix well. Spoon into tomatoes and form in neat mounds, pressing gently in
  shape with fingertips. Put reserved 'lids' on top. Arrange tomatoes, cut
  sides up, in greased pan. Bake in preheated oven 15 minutes. Garnish with
  parsley sprigs and serve hot.
      Title: Devilishly Delicious Eggs
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      6    Hard-cooked eggs
    1/3 c  Pace Picante Sauce
           -OR
    1/3 c  Pace Thick & Chunky Salsa
      2    Crisply cooked bacon slices,
           -crumbled
      1 tb Mayonnaise
  Peel and cut eggs in half lengthwise. Mash the yolks and mix with Pace,
  bacon, and mayonnaise. Fill the egg whites with the yolk mixture and chill.
  Garnish with olive slices or small sprigs or parsley or cilantro and serve
  on a lettuce-lined tray.
      Title: Devilled Crabs
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  6
     12 lg Crabs
      1 c  Cream
      2 tb Flour
    1/4 ts Mace
      1 tb Butter
      1 ts Parsley, Minced
      1 ts Worcestershire Sauce
      4    Eggs, Hard Boiled, Mashed
           Salt & Pepper
           Bread Crumbs
  Cover crabs with boiling salt water and boil for 30 minutes. Drain off the
  water, break off all claws, separate the shells and remove the spongy
  fingers and the stomach, which is found under the head. Pick out all the
  meat and set aside. Clean the upper shells of the crabs thoroughly. Melt
  the butter and add the flour and blend. Stir in cream and cook until
  mixture thickens, stirring constantly. Add the parsley, mashed egg yolks,
  seasonings and crab meat. Fill the shells with this mixture and cover with
  bread crumbs. Bake at 350-F for 10 minutes or put in a frying basket and
  plunge into hot oil until golden brown.
  Source:  Pennsylvania Dutch Cook Book - Fine Old Recipes, Culinary Arts
  Press, 1936.
      Title: Dijon Drambuie Dip
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  1
    3/4 c  Mayonnaise
    1/4 c  Dijon mustard
    1/4 c  Drambuie Liqueur
  Makes about 1 1/4 cups.
  In a small bowl, whisk together all ingredients until smooth. Serve with
  large, cooked, icy cold shrimp; assorted bite sized vegetables and bread
  sticks.
  Posted by Sue Paddock, Prodigy ID# HXVJ03B.
      Title: Dill Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings:  6
      1 c  Sour cream
      1 c  Mayonnaise
      1 ts Celery seed
      1 ts Dill weed
      1 tb Chopped parsley
      2 ts Seasoned salt
  Mix, chill, and serve with bite-size vegetables of your choice.
      Title: Dill Dip in Rye Bread
 Categories: Dips, Appetizers
   Servings: 20
      1 c  Mayonnaise
      1 c  Sour Cream
      2 tb Dill weed
      2 tb Onion Flakes
      2 tb Parsley Flakes
  Start the day before, or atleast early in the day to serve in the evening.
  The dry ingredients need time to soften, and get friendly.  Mix all
  ingredients and refrigerate over night.
  Carve out the bread  to make a bowl, saving the bread to dip into the
  sauce.
  When ready to serve, put the dip inside the bread, arange the bread pieces
  around the 'bowl'. When the pieces are gone, slice, rip, or tear the
  remaining crust and eat.
  We had a bakery in Baltimore that made a great Sweedish/Onion Rye, although
  that was the name on the bread, they claimed that there was nothing special
  about it. I have served it with plain 'store bought' rye, the round loaves
  and with my own home made rye.
      Title: Dill Vegie Dip
 Categories: Dips, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
    1/2 c  Sour cream
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
      2 tb Finely chopped dill weed
  Refrigerate for several hours, serve with fresh vegetables for dipping.
      Title: Dip in Sour Dough
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  8
      1 pk Leek or vegetable soupmix
      1 pk Chopped spinach, frozen
      2 c  Sour cream
      1 c  Mayonnaise
      1 lg Garlic clove, minced
      1 cn Water chestnuts, chopped
      1 lg Sour dough loaf, round
  Combine all ingredients, except bread, together. Carefully scoop out a
  large hollow through the top of the sourdough and fill with the dip
  mixture. Cover loaf with aluminum foil and refrigerate at least 2 hours.
  Cube the bread taken from the centre of the loaf and serve with the dip.
      Title: Dippy Snacks
 Categories: Kids, Dips
   Servings:  6
      1    Stick (1/2 cup) butter or
           -margarine, softened
      1 c  Cottage cheese
  With carrots, celery, green pepper strips, cucumber slices, cherry
  tomatoes, cauliflower pieces or crackers, try any of the following:
  CHEESE SPREAD
  garlic powder
  Blend shortening with cottage cheese. A blender or baby food grinder will
  give you a smoother consistency than whipping with a fork. Add garlic
  powder to taste. Refrigerate in a covered container.
  DIP IT AGAIN
  1 (8 oz) container of plain yogurt 1 cup sour cream 1 pkg onion soup mix
  Combine and chill before serving.
  BETTER-WITH-BUTTERMILK DIP
  1 cup buttermilk 2 cups mayonnaise 1 cup sour cream or yogurt 1 envelope
  Ranch style dressing mix
  Stir together and chill. For use as salad dressing, substitute a second cup
  of buttermilk for the sour cream or yogurt.
  Hint: Use cucumber "coins" instead of crackers.
  OTHER QUICK DIPPIES that make up in small quantities:
  * Blend 1/3 to 1/2 of a mashed banana with 2 or 3 tsps of mayonnaise.
  * Whipe together 1 tsp of smooth peanut butter with 1 tsp of mayonnaise. If
  still too thick, add a few drops of milk.
  * Mix 1/2 tsp of lemon juice and 1/2 tsp of honey or sugar to 1 or 2 tsp of
  mayonnaise.
  CUTTING UP WITH KIDS
  Have your children help you cut up green onions, parsley, lettuce, cheese
  slices, fruit, etc., using a scissors instead of a knife. Using a scissors
  helps coordination (YES!) and keeps them busy for a _long_ time!
  CHERRY BALLS
  Stuff whole (or half) cherry tomatoes with cream cheese, a cheese spread,
  egg salad or tuna salad.
  Actually thinking of snacks as hors d'oeuvres - rather than desserts - will
  open up a whole new way of looking at this category.
      Title: Domestic Boursin Cheese
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
           Jim Vorheis
      3 oz Cream cheese
      4 tb Butter
    1/4 ts Garlic powder
      2 tb Freshly grated Parmesan
           -cheese
      1 tb Dry white wine
      1 tb Minced parsley
      1 pn Of thyme
      1 pn Of marjoram
  Cream all ingredients thoroughly or use food processor with steel blade.
  Chill for at least four hours.  Serve with crackers.
  Colorado Cache Cookbook (1978) From the collection of Jim Vorheis
      Title: Domesticated Chick Pea Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings:  6
      6    Garlic Cloves
    1/4 ts Black Pepper
      1 c  Olive Oil
    1/2 c  Lemon Juice
      3 c  Chick-Peas, Cooked
-----------------------------GARNISH----------------------------------
           Parsley, Chopped
      1 tb Salt
  Place the garlic, pepper, olive oil, lemon juice, and salt in a food
  processor or blender and puree until the garlic is finely chopped.  If
  preparing by hand, finely dice and mash the garlic, then mix with the other
  ingredients.  Add the chick-peas and continue mixing to a smooth paste.
  Garnish with the chopped parsley.  May be served at room temperature or
  chilled. Makes about 4-1/2 cups of dip SUGGESTED DIPPERS: Pita Bread Or
  Toast Triangles, Scallions, Bland Water Crackers, Red Cabbage
      Title: Double Cheese Wheel
 Categories: Cheese, Appetizers
   Servings: 24
      1 lb Cheese *
      3 oz Cream Cheese, Softened
    1/4 c  Marinated Artichoke Hearts**
    1/4 c  Pine Nuts, Toasted, 1 Oz
  1 1/2 ts Fresh Basil Leaves, OR ***
    1/2 ts Basil Leaves, Dried ***
  * You should get 1 whole wheel of Chicuahua Or Monterey Jack Cheese **
  Artichoke hearts should be drained and chopped. *** Fresh basil leaves
  should be snipped or dried basil leaves should be crushed.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Remove any wax coating or rind from Chihuahua cheese.  Hollow out cheese
  with knife or spoon, leaving a 1/2-inch thick shell on the sides and
  bottom; reserve cheese shell.  Finely chop enough of the scooped-out cheese
  to measure 1 cup (reserve any extra for another use).  Place 1 cup chopped
  cheese, the cream cheese, artichoke hearts, 3 T of the pine nuts,and the
  basil in the workbowl of food processor fitted with the steel blade, cover
  and process until well mixed.  Pack mixture into cheese shell. Sprinkle
  with remaining 1 T pine nuts; press lightly.  Cover and refrigerate until
  filling is firm, about 3 hours.  Cut into thin wedges. Serve with assorted
  crackers if desired.
      Title: Down and Dirty Apple Chutney Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings:  2
      1 c  Unsweetened Applesauce
    1/4 c  Honey
    1/4 c  Raisins
      4 ts Lemon Juice
  1 1/4 ts Curry Powder
      1 ts Celery Salt
      1 tb Tarragon Vinegar
      2 tb Dark Brown Sugar
  Mix the applesauce and hone, blending well, and add the rains.  Blend in
  the lemon juice and vinegar, mixing well.  Add all of the other
  ingredients, blending well.  Cover and chill.  Makes about 1-3/4 cups of
  dip.  SUGGESTED DIPPERS:  Pound Cake Cubes, Dried Fruit, Steak, Apricots,
  Melon, Italian Bread Chunks, Croutons.
      Title: Dr. Pepper Glazed Pecans
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
    1/2 tb Butter or margarine
    1/2 c  Of Dr. Pepper
      1 c  Pecan halves
           Melt butter in small sauce
           -pan and add Dr. Pepper,
           -bring
           To simmering point.  Add
           -pecans and simmer for 15
           -minutes
           Or until Dr. Pepper
           -evaporates stirring
           -frequently.  Pour
           Pecans over cookie sheet and
           -bake in 275 degree oven for
     40    Minutes or until crisp or
           -turning at least every 10
  minutes while baking.
      Title: Dried Split Pea Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings: 12
      1    Onion; chopped
      3 tb Oil
  3 1/2 c  Water
      8 oz Green split peas
    1/4 c  Finely chopped green chiles
      2    Garlic cloves; minced
      1    Lemon; juiced
      2    Tomatoes; peeled, seeded
           - and chopped
      2 tb Chopped fresh cilantro
    1/2 ts Ground cumin
           Chinese chili oil
           Salt
      6    Pita breads (6-inch)
  Saute the onion in 2 tablespoons of the oil in a 1-1/2 to 2 quart saucepan
  until tender but not browned.  Stir in the water and split peas and bring
  to a boil. Boil 2 minutes, remove from heat, cover, and let stand 30
  minutes.
  Return the pan to the heat and bring to a boil.  Cover, reduce heat, and
  simmer about 20 minutes, or until peas are tender.  Cool slightly, drain
  peas; reserve any liquid.  Puree peas in a food processor or blender,
  adding enough reserved liquid to reach desired consistency.
  Place the pureed peas in a bowl and stir in the chiles, garlic, lemon
  juice, tomatoes, cilantro, cumin, and remaining 1 tablespoon oil.  Season
  mixutre to taste with a few drops chili oil and salt.  Cover and chill
  well.
  Split pita rounds nad cut each half into 6 to 8 wedges.  Place on baking
  sheet and bake at 350 F for 5 to 10 minutes or just until crisp and wedges
  are light brown.
  Place the dip in a serving bowl, with the crisp pita bread wedges for
  dipping.
  Makes about 3 cups.
  From Michael Roberts - Trumps, Los Angeles Best Recipes from the Los
  Angeles Times - ISBN: 0-8109-1237-6 Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
      Title: Drunken Tuna Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese, Dips, Seafood
   Servings:  6
  1 1/2 ts Brandy
      1 c  Cream Cheese, Softened
    1/4 c  Sour Cream
    1/4 c  Mayonnaise
    3/4 c  Fresh Tuna, Flaked, Or
  6 1/2 oz Tuna, Drained And Flaked
      2 ts Green Onion, Minced
      1 ts Lemon Juice
    1/8 ts Hot Sauce
    1/8 ts Salt
  Beat the brandy and cream cheese to a smooth and creamy consistency. Blend
  in the sour cream and mayonnaise.  Mix in the tuna and green onion,
  blending well.  Add the remaining ingredients and blend until almost
  smooth.  May be served at room temperature or chilled.  Makes about 2-1/2
  cups of dip.  SUGGESTED DIPPERS:  Onion Crackers, French Bread Cubes,
  Cheese Crackers, Celery Root, Cucumber, Radishes, Monterey Jack Cheese
  Sticks.
      Title: Dubliner Dip with Rustic Vegetables
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  2
      1 c  Mayonnaise
      3 c  Mixed fresh greens, such as
           -spinach, parsley,
           -watercress, or
           Fresh dill, washed and
           -patted dry
    1/4 c  Chopped green onion
      1    Clove Garlic, minced
      1 c  Sour Cream or yogurt
      1 ds Hot pepper sauce
  Mixed fresh vegetables, such as radishes, green onions, celery or turnip
  sticks, boiled and chilled small new potatoes, blanched carrots,
  cauliflower and broccoli pieces.
  Combine mayonnaise, mixed greens, onion and garlic in food processor or
  blender. Puree until smooth.  Spoon into mixing bowl.  Stir in sour cream
  and blend well. Season with hot pepper sauce. Chill overnight. Serve with
  vegetables. Makes 2 1/2 cups.
  SOURCE: *Oneida Daily Dispatch POSTED BY: Jim Bodle 3/93
      Title: Duck Liver Mousse
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      1 lb Duck livers, cleaned
      1 tb Kosher salt
      2    To 3 large shallots, chopped
      1 oz Brandy
      1 tb Fresh pepper
      1 oz Hazelnut liqueur
      1 tb Nutmeg
      3 c  Heavy cream
  Put liver, shallots, pepper, nutmeg, salt, brandy and liqueur in food
  processor and puree.  With machine on add 3 cups heavy cream.  Strain
  through a fine sieve.  Bake in water bath at 325 to 350 until the center is
  firm to the touch.
  Serve as an appetizer or fist course with toasted French Bread slices.
      Title: Duck Liver Moose
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      1 lb Duck livers, cleaned
      1 tb Kosher salt
      3 lg Shallots, chopped
      1 oz Brandy
      1 tb Fresh pepper
      1 oz Hazelnut liqueur
      1 tb Nutmeg
      3 c  Heavy cream
  Put liver, shallots, pepper, nutmeg, salt, brandy and liqueur in food
  processor and puree.  With machine on add 3 cups heavy cream.  Strain
  through a fine sieve.  Bake in water bath at 325 to 350 until the center is
  firm to the touch. Serve as an appetizer or fist course with toasted French
  Bread slices.
      Title: Easy Cheesy Salsa Dip
 Categories: Dips, Condiments
   Servings:  1
      1 cn Pasteurized process cheese
           -spread (8 oz)
    1/2 c  Pace Thick & Chunky Salsa
    1/4 c  Dairy sour cream
------------------------OPTIONAL TOPPINGS-----------------------------
           Sliced green onion tops
           Chopped cilantro
           Diced red bell peppers
  Combine cheese spread, Pace Thick & Chunky Salsa and sour cream; mix well.
  Transfer to serving bowl; top as desired. Serve chilled with vegetable
  dippers or unsalted chips. Makes about 1-2/3 cups.
      Title: Easy Cheese and Shrimp Gyozas (East/west)
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood, Cheese
   Servings:  4
    1/2 lb Medium shrimp (41 to 40 per
           -pound) shelled and deveined
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Finely minced ginger or
           -ginger juice
      2 ts Dry sherry or rice wine
      1 ts Cornstarch
      5    Fresh water chestnuts,
           -finely chopped
      2    Green onions, chopped
  1 1/2 tb Chopped fresh coriander
      2    Chinese sausages, finely
           -chopped
  1 1/4 c  Grated Monterey Jack cheese
           -(about 5 ounces)
      1 pk Round siu mai wrappers or
           -won ton wrappers
           LIME CREAM SAUCE
           (see note)
      1 tb Oil
    2/3 c  Chicken stock
  1 1/2 c  Heavy cream
      1 tb Lime juice
  Salt and white pepper to taste Sprigs of fresh coriander
  Toss the shrimp with 1 teaspoon of the salt and let stand for 10 minutes.
  Rinse thoroughly, drain and pat dry.
  Finely chop shrimp and put them in a mixing bowl.
  Add remaining salt, ginger, rice wine, cornstarch, water chestnuts, green
  onions, coriander, sausage and cheese to mix- ture; mix thoroughly.
  If you are using won ton wrappers, trim the corner to make a circle.
  Place 1 heaping teaspoon filling in the center of 1 wrapper. Moisten the
  edge of the wrapper with water and fold in half to enclose filling and form
  a half-circle. Pinch the edges together to seal.
  Set on a baking sheet; cover with a towel. Repeat with remaining filling
  and wrappers.
  To cook and sauce 4 servings, add 1 tablespoon of the oil to a 10-inch
  nonstick skillet and set over medium heat.
  Arrange 12 gyozas in one single layer; pan-fry for 1 minute or until
  lightly browned. Turn the gyozas over to brown other side, about 1 minute
  longer.
  Add chicken stock, shake pan to prevent gyozas from stick- ing. Cover and
  cook at low boil for 2 minutes. Remove gyozas to a plate; keep warm.
  Increase heat under skillet to high, add cream; bring to a boil stirring
  for 45 seconds until thickened. Stir in lime juice.
  Season with salt and pepper.
  To serve, divide the sauce among 4 plates. Arrange 3 gyozas on each.
  Garnish with fresh coriander springs.
  Note: There is enough filling to make 4 dozen gyozas. The amount of sauce
  indicated above is enough for 12 gyozas. If you want to make more, multiple
  the sauce ingredients, but bear in mind that you will have to make the
  sauce separately as part of each batch. Freeze extra uncooked gyozas on a
  baking sheet; when frozen, transfer them to a freezer bag. Do not defrost
  before browning.
  Makes 4 dozen gyozas. Serves 16.
      Title: Easy Cheesy Artichoke Dip
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  1
      1 cn Artichoke hearts (14 oz)
    1/2 c  Pace Picante Sauce
           -OR
    1/2 c  Pace Thick & Chunky Salsa
    3/4 c  Mayonnaise (light or reg)
      1 c  Freshly grated Parmesan
  Drain and chop artichoke hearts. Mix with Pace, mayonnaise and Parmesan
  cheese. Spread into a pie plate or ovenproof casserole. Bake at 350'F. for
  20 minutes or until hot. For a festive touch, sprinkle with chopped red
  bell peppers and fresh cilantro. Place on a tray and surround with
  crackers, chips or vegetable dippers.
      Title: Easy Mexican Chicken and Rice
 Categories: Poultry, Dips, Chicken
   Servings:  6
      1 c  Converted rice
  1 2/3 c  Water
      1 md Onion (chopped)
      4    Skinless, chicken breast
           -halves
      1 c  Salsa (the one you like)
           Salt  to taste
      2    Chicken bullion cubes
  In a large pan, combine the water and bullion cubes, and bring to a boil.
  Add rice, onions and salt, boil 10 min then remove from the heat. Place
  into casserole dish, place chicken breasts on top and pour salsa over the
  chicken breast and rice, cover.
  Place into preheated oven (350o), and cook for 1 hr. Serve.
      Title: Eels in Piquant Sauce ( All I Pebre)
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings: 10
      4 lb Eel
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 tb Paprika
      2 c  Hot water
      3    Garlic cloves; chopped
     14    Blanched almonds
      2 tb Chopped fresh parsley
    1/4 ts Saffron
      1 tb Olive oil
           Salt to taste
  A favorite Valencian tapa as well as a popular main dish, especially along
  the Costa Blanca. A cold beer might go best with this piquant tapa.
  Clean and skin eels and cut into 1- to 1 1/2-inch pieces. Heat 1 tablespoon
  olive oil in a casserole or skillet, add paprika, and stir in enough water
  to cover eels. Bring to a boil and add pieces of eel. Meanwhile with a
  mortar and pestle or in an electric blender crush garlic, almonds, parsley,
  and saffron with enough olive oil to make a smooth paste. Stir mixture into
  casserole, add salt to taste, and cook for about 20 minutes or until eels
  are done. Add more water if sauce thickens. Serve hot.
  Variation: For an all-in-one meal or a main course, add peas, chopped
  carrots, or new potatoes (or all three) and serve over rice, as they do in
  Valencia.
  From: "Tapas, Wines & Good Times" by Don and Marge Foster. ISBN:
  0-8092-4877-8
      Title: Egg Pancake Rolls with Pork Filling
 Categories: Appetizers, Pork, Pancakes
   Servings:  8
      4    Eggs
      1 tb Dry sherry
           Carrots, finely chopped
           (for garnish)
-----------------------------FILLING----------------------------------
      1 c  (about 1/2 lb) ground pork,
           Uncooked
      2 md Fresh mushrooms,
           Chopped fine
      2    Scallions, chopped fine
           (white parts separate from
           The green)
      2 ts Cornstarch, dissolved in
      2 tb Water, cold
    1/2 tb Dark soy sauce
      1 tb Dry sherry
      1 ts Salt
      1 tb Peanut oil
------------------------------SAUCE-----------------------------------
      2 tb Oyster sauce
      1 tb Light soy sauce
      1 tb Plum sauce
           Dash hot chili oil or
           Tabasco
           Sauce
  In a bowl, stir the eggs with the dry sherry. In a mixing bowl, combine all
  the filling ingredients, include only the white parts of the chopped
  scallions (save the green parts for garnish) and stir to blend well. In a
  8-inch skillet, heat the oil lightly.  Pour about a quarter of the egg
  mixture to cover the bottom of the skillet.  Heat until the egg pancake has
  barely set, then transfer to a plate.  Make 3 more pancakes. Divide the
  filling into 4 portions and put a portions on each pancake. Moisten your
  fingers with cold water and spread the filling mixture evenly over the
  surface of the pancake, then roll up tightly, as you would a jelly roll.
  Seal with a little leftover egg from the egg-beating bowl.  Place the rolls
  on a flat plate that will fit your steamer, and then steam them over an
  inch of simmering water for 15 minutes. In a bowl, mix together the sauce
  ingredients.  To serve, cut the rolls into slices, cutting on the slant.
  Drizzle the sauce over them and top with the scallion greens and the
  carrots.  Makes 6 to 8 appetizer servings.
  Recipe:  "Chinese Appetizers" by Verdi
         Published by Irene Chalmers Cookbooks, 1981
      Title: Egg Plant Fritters
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  1
      1 lg Egg plant
      2 ts Butter
      1    Egg, beaten
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
           Flour
  Boil egg plant, scoop out the meat and mix with butter, egg, salt, pepper
  and enough flour to drop from a spoon.  Heat shortening (375 degrees). Drop
  batter from spoon and fry.  Drain on paper towel.  Cooking time about 6
  minutes.
      Title: Eggplant Caviar Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings:  6
      1 md Eggplant, About 1 Lb.
      2    Cloves Garlic
    1/2 ts Soy Sauce
      1 c  Fresh Tomato, Chopped
      1 ts Dried Basil, Crushed
      2 tb Olive Oil
      1 tb Lemon Juice
      2 tb Green Onion, Diced, Use All
      2 tb Fresh Parsley, Minced
      1 tb Fresh Basil, Chopped
  Cut the eggplant in half lengthwise.  Bake, cut side down, on a greased
  cookie sheet at 400øF for 60 minutes.  As the eggplant cools, gently
  squeeze out the excess water.  Use a spoon to scoop pulp from the skin.
  Place the pulp in a bowl and mash with a fork.  Using a garlic press, crush
  the garlic into the eggplant.  Add all of the other ingredients and blend
  well.  Cover and chill. Makes about 3 1/2 cups of dip. SUGGESTED DIPPERS:
  Sesame Crackers, Lavasch Crackers, Cocktail Rye Bread, Scallions, Bell
  Peppers.
      Title: Eggplant Imam Bayildi
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      2 md Eggplants
           Olive oil
      1 md Tomato, chopped
           Salt & Pepper
    1/4 ts Allspice
    1/2 ts Parsley
      1 tb Currants, soaked in cold
           -water 30 minutes
      1    Clove garlic
      1    Bay Leaf
  Cut the stems off the eggplants but do not peel.  Cut several length-wise
  slits in the eggplants, but do not slice through.  Heat 2 tb olive oil in a
  small skillet and saute the onion until it browns slightly.  Than add
  tomato, salt, pepper, allspice, and parsley.  Cook over medium low heat
  until the mixture breaks down to almost a puree.  Drain currents, and add
  the to the tomato-onion mixture, and cook for 10 more minutes. Stuff the
  cooked mixture in the slits in the eggplants with your fingers or a knife.
  Set the eggplants in a flame-proof dish that iwll just hold them. Pour oil
  over the eggplants until oil level is about halfway up the eggplants. Add
  garlic & bay leaf to the oil. Cover the dish and cook over very low heat
  for an hour or until eggplants are very soft. Turn them every 15 minutes.
  WHen done, pour off excess oil and strain and store for re-use. Cool and
  refridgerate eggplants overnight. Serve cold with thin slices.
      Title: Elegant Crabmeat Balls
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood, Pork
   Servings:  4
      2 cn Crabmeat (6-7 Oz Cans)
      1 c  Bread Crumbs (Fresh)
      3 tb Sherry Cooking Wine
      1 tb Lemon Juice
      1 tb Onion (Grated)
      1 ts Dry Mustard
    1/2 ts Salt
           Pepper
      1 pk Bacon (Cut Into Halves)
           Parsley
  Drain and flake crabmeat; combine remaining ingredients except bacon.  Mix
  well.  Shape into walnut sized balls.  Wrap in bacon half; secure with
  toothpicks.  Broil under medium heat until bacon is crisp, approximately 10
  minutes, turning to brown evenly.  Garnish with parsely ans lemon. Makes
  appromately 2 dozen.
      Title: Empanadas (Brazilian Meat Pies)
 Categories: Appetizers, Poultry
   Servings: 50
      4 c  Flour
      1 tb Butter
      1 c  Shortening
      2    Whole eggs
      1    Egg yolk
      2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Cold water
           For the filling:
      1 tb Oil
      1 sm Onion, finely chopped (about
           -1/4 cup)
      1    Clove garlic, minced
      3    Chicken legs
      1    Bay leaf
      2 tb Tomato paste
           Salt & pepper
           Water, as needed
      3 tb Flour
    1/4 c  Cooked peas
      8    Pitted green olives, chopped
           Cayenne pepper
      1    Egg beaten with a pinch of
           -salt for glaze
  Servings: Makes 50 1/2-inch empanadas
  Notes: Empanadas are Brazil's national appetizer, tiny pies filled with
  chicken olives, and peas. Belita's are famous all over Brazil. Empanadas
  are traditionally made in special molds that are almost as deep as they are
  wide. If they are unavailable, any small tartlet molds will do. "The secret
  to making good dough," says Belita, "is to massage it, not knead it." It
  may look as if she's making mud pies, but the results are truly superb.
  For the dough:
  To prepare the dough: Place the flour in a large mixing bowl and make a
  well in the center. Place the butter, shortening, eggs, salt, and 1 cup
  water in the well. Using one hand to mix, squeeze these ingredients through
  your fingers to make a paste. Gradually work in the flour, squeezing the
  dough between your fingers to mix it. Add water as necessary; the dough
  should be quite soft. Let the dough rest for 30 minutes while you prepare
  the filling.
  Heat the oil in a large saucepan. Saute the onion and garlic over medium
  heat for 2 to 3 minutes or until soft but not brown. Add the chicken, bay
  leaf, tomato paste, salt, and pepper, plus water just to cover. Bring to a
  boil, reduce heat, and simmer for 20 minutes, or until the chicken is
  cooked. Skim off the fat that rises to the surface. Remove the chicken,
  then strain and reserve the broth.
  When the chicken is cool enough to handle, discard the skin and remove the
  meat from the bone. Finely shred the meat with your fingers or in a food
  processor. Stir in the flour, peas, and olives. Stir in 3 to 4 Tbsp broth;
  the filling should be moist but not runny. Add enough cayenne to give the
  chicken a little bite.
  Pinch off cherry-sized pieces of dough and use them to line the tartlet
  molds. Belita pushes the dough in with her thumb. The dough should just
  reach over the top of the mold. Place a spoonful of filling in each crust.
  Roll out the remaining dough and cut out tops for the empanadas. Try to
  capture an air bubble when you place the top over the filling; according to
  Belita, this is what makes the pies light. Seal the tartlets by pinching
  together the top and bottom crust. Note: The empanadas can be prepared
  ahead to this stage and frozen.
  Preheat the oven to 350-F. Brush the tops with egg glaze. Bake for 30
  minutes or until golden brown. Unmold and serve.
  Source: Yankee magazine, April 1991, recipe from Belita de Castro-
  Brazilian cook, cookbook author.
  From: Sallie Austin
      Title: Empanadas - S. American
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  1
------------------------------DOUGH-----------------------------------
      2 c  Flour, all purpose
    2/3 c  Shortening or lard
    1/2 ts Salt
      6 tb Water
--------------------------DESSERT FRUIT-------------------------------
  2 1/2 c  Fruit
      1 ts Cinnamon
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
-------------------------CARNE ( ANY MEAT------------------------------
      1    Onion
      1 tb Olive oil
      4 oz Water
           Sal and Pepper to taste
      1    Pepper, green
      8 oz Tomato paste
      1 tb Vinegar
      1 lb Beef, sliced thinly
  DOUGH:
       In a medium mixing bowl, combine flour and salt.  Cut in the
  shortening or lard till pieces are the size of small peas.  Add a small
  amount of water to slightly moisten.  Form dough into a ball.  Roll out the
  dough to about 1/8 thick and cut into 4" circles.  Flour lightly both side
  of circles and then stack up for later use.
  DESSERT FILLING:  Just about any kind of fruit or melon may be used.
  Combine ingredients and heat to thoroughly mix, coarse chop, so that
  filling is chunky but bite-sized.  Pumpkins is very good!!
  CARNE:  Just about any kind of meat may be used, depending on availability.
  The sauce seems to be the only fairly consistent thing. Saute the onion and
  green pepper in olive oil.  Add remaining ingredients and cook for 20
  minutes.  ( In S.A. this is continually cooked and prepared on the back
  burner, often being used and added to for several months at a time. It
  developes a flavor all its own...)  Add meat and coat thoroughly with the
  sauce.
  COOKING:  Add a large spoonfull of one of the above mixtures to the center
  of a dough circle.  Place another circle on top.  Fasten the two circles
  together by reeding the edges with a fork.  These may then be baked, at
  around 350 degrees F until brown, deep fat fried, fried, cooked or heated
  on a barbecue.  They may also be wrapped in banana husks, well moistened
  corn husks, etc.  The object is to heat thoroughly, cooking the meat and
  browning the outsides so they are dry enough to hold together.
      Title: Empanadas
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  4
    1/4 lb Unsalted butter
      2 c  All purpose flour
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt (or to taste)
      2    Yolks of large eggs
    1/4 c  Chilled water
    1/2 lb Ground lean beef
    1/2 c  Chopped white onions
      2 tb Seedless raisins
      2 tb Chopped black or green
           -olives
    1/2 ts Ground red pepper (Cayenne)
    1/2 ts Oregano
    1/2 ts Salt
  1.  Cut the butter into 1/4 inch cubves.
  2.  Place the flour, baking powder, salt, and butter in a mixing bowl.
  Combine the ingredients with a pastry cutter (or with the steel blade in a
  food processor).
  3.  Beat the egg yolks.  Mix half of them into the flour mixture. Reserve
  the remainder for step 12.
  4.  Incorporate the water slowly into the flour mixture until the dough
  becomes a cohesive and semifirm mass.
  5.  Shape the sough into two balls.  Wrap them in plastic wrap and
  refrigerate them for 15 minutes.
  6.  Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F.
  7.  Heat the oil in a large saute pan or skillet over moderate heat. Saute
  the meat for 3 minutes, stirring frequently. Transfer the meat with a
  slotted spoon to a warm bowl.
  8.  Add the onions to the pan and saute them over low to moderate heat for
  3 minutes, stirring frequently. (Add 1 or 2 extra teaspoons of oil if
  necessary).
  9.  Return the meat to the pan and add the remaining ingredients. Cook the
  mixture for 1 minute, stirring constantly. Reserve it for step 11.
  10.  Roll each ball of dough on a lightly floured board into a 1/8-inch
  thick sheet. Using a cookie cutter with a 4- to 5-inch diameter, cut out
  rounds. Collect the scraps and repeat step 10 until the dough is used up.
  11.  Place one tablespoon of the meat mixture in the center of each dough
  round. Lightly moisten the exposed dough with cold tap water. Fold each
  round in half, creating a half-moon shape. Crimp the two edges of dough
  together, so that the stuffing cannot ooze out during the baking step.
  12.  Brush the tops of the uncooked empanadas with the remaining egg yolk.
  13.  Place the uncooked empanadas on an ungreased baking sheet. Bake them
  in the middle of the oven until the tops become light golden brown (roughly
  20 minutes). Serve the empanadas fresh from the oven.
  Serves 4.
  From:  GREAT PEASANT DDISHES OF THE WORLD by Howard Hillmann ISBN
  0-395-32210-3.  Houghton Mifflin, Boston.  1983 Posted by: Karin Brewer,
  Cooking Echo, 7/92
      Title: Endive with Tomato Rosettes
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings: 36
      6 md Heads Belgiam Endive
      8 oz Cream Cheese
      3 tb Milk
      2 oz Dried Tomatoes, Chopped
           Basil Leaves Or Watercress
           Flower For Garnish
  ABOUT 30 MINUTES BEFORE SERVING OR EARLY IN DAY: Separate leaves from heads
  of Belgiam endive (you should be able to get 6 pretty leaves from each
  endive).  Reserve small leaves and centers for salad another day. Rinse
  leaves under running cold water; pat dry with paper towels.  In small bowl,
  with mixer at medium speed, beat cream cheese until smooth. Gradually beat
  in milk until blended.  With spoon, stir in chopped dried tomatoes. Spoon
  cream-cheese filling into decorating bag with large rosette tube. Place a
  basil leaf or small watercress sprig on each endive leaf. Pipe some filling
  onto basil on wide end of each endive leaf. Arrange endive leaves on
  platter; garnish platter with flower.  Cover and refrigerate until ready to
  serve.
      Title: Endive with Bleu Cheese
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  2
      3 oz Cream cheese
      3 oz Bleu cheese
      3 tb Unsalted butter
    1/4 c  Whipping cream
      2 lg Bunch Belgian endive
  paprika
  (Makes about 2 dozen appetizers.)
  Combine cheeses, butter and 1/4 cup whipping cream in processor or blender
  and mix until creamy, adding more cream as necessary.
  Separate endive leaves; wash and drain. Spoon cheese mixture into pastry
  bag fitted with star tip and pipe into endive leaves. Arrange leaves in
  spoke pattern on large platter and sprinkle with paprika. Refrigerate until
  ready to serve.
      Title: Escargot En Croute
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
--------------------------BUTTER MIXTURE-------------------------------
      1 c  Butter
    1/4 c  Finely chopped parsley
      8    Garlic cloves; minced
      1    Shallot
      2 tb Dry white wine
  1 1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
      1 ts Fresh lemon juice
      1 ts Pernod
      2    Anchovy fillets; minced
    1/4 ts Hot pepper sauce
           Salt & freshly ground pepper
---------------------------------------------------------------------
      2 tb Butter
     36    Snails; washed
    1/4 c  Diced onion
      6 tb Dry white wine
      6    Puff pastry dough sheets*
      1    Egg
      2 tb Water
  * Note: Puff pastry sheets should be cut slightly larger than escargot
  dish.
  For BUTTER MIXTURE: Whip butter in mixing bowl.  Add next 9 ingredients
  with salt and pepper to taste, and mix well.  Set aside.
  Melt 2 tablespoons butter in medium skillet.  Add snails, onion and wine
  and saute' until liquid evaporates.  Set aside and let cool.
  Place one snail in each hole of escargot dish.  Generously cover with
  butter mixture.  Place 1 sheet of puff pastry dough over each escargot
  dish.  Trim dough and seal around edge of dish.  Beat egg with water and
  use to brush dough.  Chill until ready to bake, at least 20 minutes.
  Preheat oven to 375 degrees.  Bake until pastry rises and is golden, about
  20 to 30 minutes.  Remaining butter mixture can be refrigerated as long as
  2 weeks and used when garlic butter is needed.
  Source: Harrison's, Indianapolis, Indiana. Bon Appetit RSVP Column.
      Title: Escargots En Cercueils ( Snails in Puff Pastry Shells )
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
     36    Snails; undrained
    1/2 c  Chardonnay or dry white wine
      1    Medium onion; minced
      1    Shallot; minced
      2    Garlic cloves; minced
           Salt & freshly ground pepper
           Freshly grated nutmeg
      1 lb Puff pastry, pref. homemade
      1    Egg yolk (blended w/ milk)
      3 tb Milk (to blend with yolk)
    3/4 c  Butter; well-chilled*
    1/3 c  Chopped toasted hazelnuts
      3 tb Minced fresh parsley
  *Note: Butter should be cut into 12 pieces.
  Drain snail juices into small saucepan.  Place snails in bowl.  Add wine,
  onion, shallot, garlic, salt, pepper and nutmeg to juices and bring to
  boil.  Pour marinade over snails.  Let cool.  Cover and refrigerate for 24
  hours.  Preheat oven to 425 degrees.  Butter baking sheets.  Roll dough out
  on lightly floured surface to thickness of 1/4".  Cut out 36 circles using
  2-inch floured cutter.  Arrange circles on prepared sheets. Using knife
  tip, trace lid on each circle 3/4-inch from edge; do not cut through dough.
  Brush with glaze. Bake pastry until puffed and golden brown, about 10
  minutes.  Cool slightly on rack.  Using sharp knife, cut out lids. Discard
  any soft dough inside shells.  Reduce oven to 375 degrees.
  Strain marinade into large saucepan, pressing down on vegetables to extract
  all liquid.  Boil until reduced to 1/2 cup.  Remove pan from heat and whisk
  in 2 pieces of butter.  Set pan over low heat and whisk in remaining butter
  1 piece at a time.  Mix in snails, hazelnuts and parsley.
  Adjust seasoning.  Place 1 snail and some of sauce inside each shell. Top
  with lid.  Bake until heated through.  Serve immediately.
  Bon Appetit magazine, Dec. '84.
      Title: Escargots
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      1 c  Butter; softened
      2 tb Chopped shallots
      2 tb Chopped garlic
      2 tb Champagne or white wine
      1 tb Worcestershire Sauce
      1 tb Chopped fresh parsley
      1 ts Brandy
      1 ts Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 pn Pepper
     36    Snails and shells
  Mix, but do not whip, all ingredients except snails.  Heat mixture in large
  skillet.  Add snails and simmer 10 to 15 minutes, allowing liquid to cook
  into snails.  Preheat oven to 350 degrees.  Put small amount of butter
  mixture into bottom of each shell.  Insert snail using end of fork. Top
  with additional butter mixture.  Continue until all shells are filled,
  placing them in flat baking dish as they are completed.  Pour remaining
  butter mixture over snails and heat until bubbling, about 10 minutes.
  Source: The Sun Dial, Atlanta Georgia. Bon Appetit RSVP column.
      Title: Fake Guacamole
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  1
      1    16 oz bag of frozen peas,
           Thawed
      1 sm Can medium hot green chilis
    1/4 c  Chopped onion
    3/4 ts Garlic powder
      1 tb Red chili powder
      4 tb Your favorite salsa (or
           Chopped
           Tomatoes)
      1 tb "Imo"
           Cumin to taste
           Salt and pepper to taste
           Any other spices you enjoy
           In guacamole
   Much lower in fat than real quacamole.  Try this recipe, you'll be
  surprised! Thaw the peas by placing them in a colander and running them
  under lukewarm tapwater. To test if they're thawed, pop one in your mouth
  occasionally.  Once thawed (it should only take 1-2 minutes), drain
  thoroughly and pour the peas into a blender or food processor.
   Puree the peas in the blender or food processor.  Place pureed peas in a
  ceramic bowl and mix in the remaining ingredients. Refrigerate for several
  hours to let the flavors blend.  Makes about 1 1/2 cups.
      Title: Far East Peanut Dipping Sauce
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings:  2
      1 ts Soy Sauce
      4 ts Water
      2 ts Rice Wine Vinegar
      1 c  Peanut Butter, Chunky
      1 ts Sesame Oil
      1 ts Chili Paste With Garlic
    1/8 ts Cayenne Pepper
    1/4 c  Mayonnaise
  Mix the soy sauce and vinegar together and set aside.  Put the peanut
  butter in a bowl and mix in the sesame oil, blending thoroughly.  Then mix
  in the chili paste and cayenne pepper, blending well.  Add the soy sauce
  blending well.  Blend in the mayonnaise and serve at room temperature.
  Makes 1-1/4 cups of dipping sauce. SUGGESTED DIPPERS: Beef Satay, Shrimp,
  Crayfish, Sesame Crackers, Scallions, Cherry Tomatoes, Snow Peas
      Title: Faux Stuffed Eggs
 Categories: Appetizers, Eggs
   Servings: 28
     14 md Hard Cooked Eggs
     15 oz Garbanzo Beans, Drained
    1/4 c  Plain Lowfat Yogurt
      1 tb Dijon Mustard
      1 cl Garlic, Minced
      1 tb Red Caviar, Optional
  Slice eggs in half lengthwise; carefully remove and discard yolks. Position
  knife blade in food processor bowl; add beans and next 3 ingredients.
  Process until smooth. Spoon mixture into decorating bag fitted with a large
  star tip; pipe mixture into egg cavities. Top evenly with caviar. Yield: 28
  appetizers (serving size: 1 stuffed egg half).
  28 calories (13% from fat), 0.4 g fat, 4 mg chol, 74 mg sodium.
      Title: Fennel Seed Onion Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese, Dips
   Servings:  4
    1/2 ts Fennel Seeds
      1 c  Cream Cheese, Softened
      1 c  Sour Cream
    1/4 c  White Onion, Minced
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Black Pepper
      1 ts Paprika
  Beat the fennel seeds and cream cheese together until smooth.  Whip in the
  sour cream.  Blend in all the other ingredients, mixing well.  Cover and
  chill.  Makes about 2 cups of dip.  SUGGESTED DIPPERS: Carrots, Zucchini,
  Turnips, Crab, Butterflake Biscuit Chips.
      Title: Feta Stuffed Pasta Shells
 Categories: Appetizers, Microwave
   Servings:  1
     48 lg Pasta shells
    3/4 c  Feta cheese, crumbled
    3/4 c  Red pepper, finely diced
     12    Olives, black pitted
    1/4 c  Walnuts, finely chopped
      2 tb Parsley, fresh chopped
    1/2 ts Oregano, dried
  In pot of boiling water, cook pasta shells as directed on package (till al
  dente). Rinse until cold water. Drain well, arrange shells on large
  microwave safe serving dish. Set aside.   In bowl, combine feta, red
  pepper, olives, walnuts, parsley and oregano. Fill each pasta shells with
  about 1 tsp of feta cheese mixture. Use toothpick to skewer each shell.
  Microwave stuffed shells at Medium (50%) for 4 to 5 minutes or till heated
  through. MAKES: 48 appetizers posted by Anne MacLellan
      Title: Fiesta Onion Dip
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  6
      1    Jumbo Vidalia onion, chopped
           -(with green tops if in
           -season) OR
      2 md Vidalia onion, chopped (with
           -green tops if in season)
      3 tb Sliced black olives
      3 tb Chopped green chili peppers
      1 lg Tomato, peeled or chopped OR
      2 md Tomatoes, peeled or chopped
      3 tb Olive oil
  1 1/2 ts Wine vinegar
    1/8 ts Cumin
      1 ds Worchestershire sauce
      1 ds Tabasco sauce
           Salt and pepper to taste
  Combine the above ingredients and chill well. Serve with corn chips.
  SOURCE:* The Orignal Vidalia Onion Cookbook, compiled by Pam McIntyre,
  Published by: The Vidalia, Georgia Chamber of Commerce. POSTED BY: Jim
  Bodle 5/93
      Title: Fiesta Shrimp Dip
 Categories: Dips, Seafood
   Servings:  1
      9 oz Shrimp, Rinsed And Drained
           - Or 10 Ounces Frozen,
           - Cooked, Shelled, Thawed
      3 oz Cream Cheese, Softened
    1/2 c  Thousand Island Dressing
    1/4 c  Mayonnaise
    1/3 c  Pace Picante Sauce
      2 tb Grated Onion
      1 ts Horseradish
      2 tb Thinly Sliced Green Onion
           - Tops
  Finely chop shrimp, reserving a few whole shrimp for garnish.  Combine
  chopped shrimp with remaining ingredients except green onions; mix well.
  Spoon into serving bowl; garnish with green onion and reserved shrimp.
  Chill.  Serve with assorted crackers, chips or vegetable dippers.  Makes
  about 2-1/2 cups dip.
  Note:  If frozen shrimp are used in place of canned, add 1/4 teaspoon salt
  before chilling.
  From: Pace booklet.
      Title: Fig Appetizers
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  1
      Ripe fresh purple figs with rosy centers and luscious fresh green figs
  can make perfect cocktail fare.  Allow 1 fig, quartered, for each guest.
  For each fig, cut 2 thin slices of prosciutto lengthwise into halves. Wrap
  a half slice around each fig quarter so that it looks like a rose. To
  serve, sprinkle with fresh lime juice and freshly ground black pepper.
  Garnish with fresh mint sprigs.
        Another favorite:  Slice each fig lengthwise into halves, 1 fig per
  person.  Into each half, spoon 1 teaspoon of Pecan Cream Cheese (see
  below).  Sprinkle with finely chopped pecans. PECAN CREAM CHEESE 1/2 cup
  shelled pecans 8 oz. cream cheese, softened 1. Chop pecans coarsely in a
  food processor fitted with a steel blade. 2. Add softened cream cheese and
  process until smooth.  Scrape out with a rubber spatula, cover, and
  refrigerate until ready to use. Makes 1 cup.
      Title: Filled Tortillas
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  1
      6    Flour tortillas
           -Salsa (optional)
     16 oz Cream cheese (softened)
  1 1/2 tb Chopped black olives
      4    Jalapenos chopped fine
    1/4    -1/2 tsp chili powder
    3/4 ts Seasoning salt
  Mix softened (can be done in the microwave) cream cheese, olives,
  jalipinos, chili powder, and seasoning salt. Spread a thin layer on
  tortilla going all the way out to the edges. Roll tortilla. Repeat for each
  tortilla. At this point you can either put them in a plastic bag in the
  refrigerator and save until you are ready to serve them, or serve
  immediately. (Sometimes I warm them for a few seconds in the microwave to
  soften, other times I serve cold). Cut into 1/2" slices before serving. Can
  be dipped into salsa.
  From: Stephanie Da Silva              Date: 07-19-93
      Title: Fish En Escabeche
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
   Servings: 12
      1 lb Firm White Fish Fillets *
    1/3 c  Lemon Juice
    1/3 c  Lime Juice
    1/4 c  Olive Or Vegetable Oil
      1 tb Cilantro, Fresh, Snipped **
      1 ts Oregano, Fresh, Snipped ***
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
     12    Stuffed Green Olives ****
      2    Jalapenos Chiles *****
      1 sm Onion, Finely Chopped
      1    Clove Garlic, Finely Chopped
      1 c  Tomato, Seeded And Chopped
      1    Avocado, Peeled And Chopped
  * Fish should be Orange Roughy, Haddock, or Mackerel, cut into 1/2" strips
  ** If fresh Cilantro is not available, use 1 t dried cilantro leaves. ***
  If fresh oregano is not availabel, use 1/4 t dried oregano leaves. ****
  Olives should have pimiento stuffing. ***** Jalapeno Chiles should be
  seeded and chopped.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Heat 3/4-inch of water to boiling in 10-inch skillet; carefully place fish
  in water.  Heat to boiling; reduce heat.  Simmer, uncovered, just until
  fish is opaque, about 30 seconds (DO NOT overcook or fish will fall apart);
  drain carefully.  Mix remaining ingredients except tomato and avocado in a
  glass or plastic dish.  Stir in fish carefully.  Cover and refrigerate 2
  days, carefully stirring occasionally.  Just before serving, gently stir in
  tomato and avocado; drain.  Serve fish mixture on saltine crackers or
  tortilla chips, if desired.
      Title: Five Cheese Pizza
 Categories: Pizza, Cheese, Appetizers
   Servings:  1
           Whole wheat pizza dough (rec
           -ipe) or basic crust
      2 tb Pine nuts
      2 tb Olive oil; plus additional
           -for pan
           Cornmeal for pan (optional)
      1 ts White wine vinegar
    1/2 ts Garlic; minced
      1 sm Zucchini; thinly sliced (ab
           -out 3/4 cup)
    1/3 c  Red onion; very thinly slic
           -ed
    3/4 c  Provolone cheese; grated
           Coarse salt
           Fresh ground pepper
    1/2 c  Mozzarella cheese; grated
    1/3 c  Bel paese cheese; slivered
           -(get at italian groc.)
    1/4 c  Gorgonzola cheese; crumbled
      6 tb Parmesan; freshly grated (i
           -mported is best)
      1 tb Parsley; fresh, chopped
  1.  Prepare Whole Wheat Pizza Dough through Step 3. 2. Heat small skillet
  over low heat until hot to the touch.  Add pine nuts; reduce heat to very
  low.  Toast pine nuts, shaking pan frequently, until evenly golden, about 2
  minutes.  Set aside. 3. Heat oven to 500F. Oil a 12-inch pizza pan as
  necessary for type of pan (see below for tips); sprinkle with cornmeal if
  desired. 4. Combine 1 Tablespoon of the oil, the vinegar, and galric in
  medium bowl; add zucchini and red onion, tossing to coat. 5. Complete Whole
  Wheat Pizza Dough. 6. Place dough in prepared pan; brush surface with
  remaining oil. Sprinkle half the provolone evenly over dough, leaving a
  3/4-inch border; top with even layer of zucchini mixture. Sprinkle with
  salt and pepper to taste, then with the remaining provolone, all the
  mozzarella, Bel Paese, and Gorgonzola, and half the Parmesan. Sprinkle with
  additional salt and pepper.  Bake until crust is golden, about 15 minutes.
  Scatter pine nuts evenly over surface. Bake until pine nuts and crust are
  browned, 3 to 5 minutes longer. Sprinkle with remaining Parmesan and the
  parsley.  Serve immediately. Makes One 12-inch Pizza! Recipe from Cuisine,
  November, 1984.  See Whole Wheat Pizza Dough recipe. Which Pan for Pizza?
  Almost any type of pan can give good results, though directions for
  brushing with oil and sprinkling with cornmeal differ slightly with each.
  In fact, the use of cornmeal is not required to prevent sticking except
  when using a pizza stone, but a little sprinkled on the surface of any pan
  will give added texture to the crust. Tin-lined steel; aluminum round pizza
  pans or baking sheets:
      Generously brush the pan with olive oil. Black-finished metal baking
  sheets and pizza pans:
      Follow the manufacturer's directions for care.  Lightly brush bottom
  and sides (if any) with olive oil. Pyrex pizza pan:
      Generously brush pan with olive oil. Pizza Stone:
      Stones require preheating in a 500F oven.  They require no oiling but
  must be sprinkled with cornmeal to prevent sticking just before the pizza
  is transferred from the peel (paddle).  The peel must also be sprinkled
  with cornmeal before the uncooked pizza is place on it for transfer to the
  heated pizza stone.  When removing the hot pizza stone from the oven, be
  careful not to set it on a cold surface, or the stone will crack.
      Title: Flaky Beef Turnovers
 Categories: Beef, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      6 oz Boneless beef top round or
           -rib-eye steak
      2 sm Potatoes, peeled, diced
  Half of a (1.25 oz) envelope dry onion-soup mix (about 3 TBLS) 2
  TABLESPOONS ketchup 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 1 TABLESPOON chopped
  fresh parsley 6 frozen puff-pastry shells (one 10-oz. package)
  "It's important to cut potatoes into very small pieces, so they get done by
  the time the pastry is brown."
  Preheat oven to 400 F (205 C).  Trimbeef; discard fat.  Cut beef into cubes
  no larger than 1/2 inch.  In a medium bowl, combine beef, potatoes, soup
  mix, ketchup, Worcestershire sauce and parsley.  On a lightly floured
  board, roll out each pastry shell to a 7-inch circle. Spoon equal amounts
  or about 1/4 cup meat mixture on each rolled-out shell.  Brush edges with
  water.  Fold over; press with tines of a fork to seal.  Cut several slits
  in top of each.  Place on a baking sheet.  Bake in preheated oven 20 to 25
  minutes or until golden brown.  Serve hot.  Makes 6 turnovers.
  [Mable Hoffman's Finger Foods, page 65; HP Books, 1989.]
  From Charlie Baden
      Title: Flash Un Kas
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  1
      2 c  Flour
    1/2 lb Butter
    1/2 lb Cream Cheese
-----------------------------FILLINGS----------------------------------
      2 oz Goose Liver Paste
      1 ts Worcestershire Sauce
      1 ts Steak Sauce
           Or:
      2 oz Ground Ham
      1 ts Steak Sauce
      1 ts Catsup
           Or:
           Anchovy Paste
           Or:
           Caviar
  Work into the flour the butter and cream cheese. Chill thoroughly... over
  night is not too long. Take pieces of dough and roll very thin, as quickly
  as possible. Cut with a round cookie cutter, size of a water glass or
  larger if desired. Mix together ingredients for one of the fillings. Spread
  on dough, fold over and bake at 400øF until brown. These may be shaped
  earlier and baked just before serving. Serve as an appetizer with beer,
  except the anchovy or caviar which should be served with cocktails. Make
  the anchovy and caviar appetizers somewhat smaller than the ones that are
  to be served with beer. Source: Pennsylvania Dutch Cook Book - Fine Old
  Recipes, Culinary Arts Press, 1936.
      Title: Flavorings for Main Course Crepes
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  1
      1 tb Brandy
      1 tb Fresh herbs
      1 ts Dried herbs
      1 ts Grated lemon rind
  Add these with the melted and cooled butter.
  From:  You can do anything with crepes.  1993 Cooking Echo Picnic cookbook
  exchange. Happy Charring
  ~-- EZPoint V2.2 * Origin: "LaRK's" Place (1:343/26.3)
  ===========================================================================
  BBS: High Country East Date: 07-31-93 (23:20) Number: 1776 From: LAWRENCE
  KELLIE              Refer#: NONE To: ALL Recvd: NO Subj: recipe Conf: (52)
  Cooking
      Title: For the Elegant Set (Menu & Recipes)
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      1 ts Onion juice
           Juice from 1/2 lemon
      8 oz Pacakge softened cream
           -cheese
           Toast rounds
      1 sm Jar of caviar
  FROM:      Shelley Rodgers (Jolly Rodgers:the Portuguese Pirate!)
  Food fit for the most exquisite of palates!  Build your reputation as a
  hostess.  Don't be faint hearted when it comes to serving your gourmet
  friends.  Bring out your best silver and dazzle them with your culinary
  skill. The recipes that follow will bring you compliments and you won't
  have to spend hours in the kitchen to bring it off.
  ~=> Menu Red Caviar Canapes Strawberry Surprises Fondue Bourguignonne Meat
  Dip Sauces: Mock Bernaise, Anchovy, Garlic, Mustard Plum Elite Espresso
  coffee (no recipe) Light California champagne (no recipe)
  ~=> Serving Suggestion Starched blue linen, crystal serving dishes, white
  porcelain and sterling champagne glasses all bring a touch of elegance to
  an intimate deck-side gathering. Arched candelabra with tall white tapes
  would be perfect for illuminating the fondue dish. Each guest could be
  handed a porcelain salad size plate with blue linen napkin folded on top
  and frosted sliver champagne glass. Remember to preheat your best demitasse
  cups for the expresso.
  ~=> Red Caviar Canapes chopped chives
  Mix onion juice, lemon juice and cream cheese.  Using a pastry tube, form a
  crown of this mixture on rounds of toast.  From the jar of caviar, take a
  dab to fill each center. Decorate the edges with chopped chives.
  ~=> Strawberry Surprises  (note:  NO LIE!!!) 2 lbs fresh strawberries 1 cup
  powdered sugar 1 cup light rum 1 cup vodka 1 cup Triple Sec
  Gouge out the stems so the hollow center of the strawberries are exposed.
  Place them in a plastic container and sprinkle the powdered sugar over
  them. Add the rum, vodka and Triple Sec and gently tumble until well mixed.
  Refrigerate covered for at least 2 days occasionally tumbling.  Gently
  remove strawberries from marinade and serve cold in pre-chilled crystal
  bowl.  Sip the marinade!!!
  ~=> Fondue Bourguignonne 1 1/2 lbs beef tenderloin (cheaper cuts may need
  to be tenderized) peanut oil
  Cut meat into bite-sized pieces and set aside.  Pour oil into your fondue
  dish or chafing dish until it is at least 3 inches deep. Heat the oil t
  about 360~ or until it will cokk a test chunk of meat in three minutes.
  Each guest spears a chunk of beef with a fondue fork and cooks it to taste
  in the hot oil. (It's nice to mark the forks with a colored dot on a piece
  of tape so they will be recognized). After the pieces of meat are cooked,
  each guest dips the choice morsel into one of the variety of elegant
  sauces.
  ~=> Meat Dip Sauces --=> Mock Bernaise Soak 1 tsp tarragon in 1 Tbsp
  tarragon vinegar.  Add 1 cup mayonnaise, 3 shallots and a pinch of dry
  mustard.  Whirl in a blender for 1 minute.
  ~-=> Anchovy Combine 2 tsp anchovy pate with 1 cup mayonnaise. Mix
  thoroughly.
  ~-=> Garlic Cream together 1 stick of softened butter and 1 clove finely
  minced garlic.
  ~-=> Curry Combine 2 tsp curry powder (or more) witha dash of garlic
  powder, dash oflemon juice and 1 10-oz can of beef gravy.
  ~-=> Mustard Combine 1 cup mayonnaise, 2 Tbsp sour cream, 1-1/2 Tbsp dry
  musgard, 2 tsp tarragon vinegar and a little salt.
  ~=> Plum Elite 4 parts Sake 1 part Plum wine sqeeze of lime fresh pineapple
  wedges for garnish
  Combine sake and plum wine.  Add a squeeze of lime.  Pour over cracked ice
  in a prechilled tall silver or crystal stemmed water glass. Garnish with a
  slim wedge of fresh pineapple for stirring and nibbling. [ Food for Wet
  Fingers, Sharon R. Hines, 11/81 ]
  ** -=> this comes from the bottom of the files of Shelley Rodgers <=-
      Title: Freezer Log
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
    1/2 lb Sharp Cheddar cheese
      8 sl Cooked bacon
    1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
      1 ts Dry mustard
      2 ts Mayonnaise
  Combine in food processor - 1/2 lb. sharp yellow cheese, 8 slices bacon,
  1/2 tsp. Worchestershire sauce, 1 tsp. dry mustard, 2 tsp. mayonnaise.
  Blend until bacon is minced. Form into a log shaped like party rye bread.
  Wrap in plastic wrap or foil and freeze til firm. To serve, slice, put on
  rye bread,
      Title: French Onion Rings
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      2 lg White onions
      1 c  Beer
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Baking powder
  1 1/4 c  Flour
      1 tb Oil
      1    Beaten egg
  Slice onions into 1/4 inch slices.  Separate into rings. In a large bowl
  combine flour, baking powder, salt, egg, beer and oil. Blend until smooth.
  Dip onion rings into batter to coat well, fry in hot oil at 375 degrees
  until golden brown.  Drain on paper towels.
      Title: French Onion Dip
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  1
    1/2 c  Miracle Whip
      2 c  Sour Cream
      1 pk French Onion Soup Mix
  Combine all ingredients until well mixed.  Cover and chill until serving
  time.  Makes 2-1/2 cups.  From: Los Angeles Times.
      Title: French Style Herbed Cheese
 Categories: Appetizers, Spreads
   Servings:  6
      8 oz Pkg softened cream cheese
      2 tb Milk
    1/4 ts Crushed dried oregano leaves
    1/8 ts Garlic powder
    1/8 ts Onion powder
    1/8 ts Pepper
  Combine all ingredients, mix until well blended. Chill. Serve with crusty
  french bread or crackers.
      Title: Fresh Corn and Sausage Fritters
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings: 24
      1 c  All-purpose Flour, sifted
      1 ts Baking Powder
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Paprika
      1 c  Sausage, cooked and crumbled
      1 c  Fresh Corn off the cob
      2    Egg Yolks, beaten
      2 tb Milk
      2    Egg Whites, beaten stiff
           Oil, for frying
  Sift flour, baking powder, and spices together in a mixing bowl. Add
  sausage, corn, egg yolks, and milk; mix until blended. Fold in stiffly
  beaten egg whites. Drop by heaping teaspoonfuls into oil heated to 360 -
  365 degrees. Cook 3 to 5 minutes, turning to brown on all sides. Drain on
  paper towels.
  Makes about 24 fritters
  SOURCE: Oneida Daily Dispatch 8/13/92, The Kitchen Magician, Barbara Barker
  SHARED BY:Jim Bodle 8/92
      Title: Fresh Fruit Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings:  6
      1    Egg (beaten)
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 tb Grated orange peel
      2 ts Grated lemon peel
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 pt Whipping cream (whipped)
  Cook and stir over low heat 5 minutes until thick. (should be very thick!)
  Cool well.  Fold cooled ingredients into whipped cream. Serve with fresh
  fruits, strawberries, bananas, pineapples, etc.
  Randy Rigg
      Title: Fresh Vegetable Pizza
 Categories: Appetizers, Pizza
   Servings: 60
      2 c  Pillsbury Crescent Rolls
      8 oz Sour cream
  1 1/2 tb Prepared horseradish
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      2 c  Fresh mushrooms, chopped
      1 c  Chopped, seeded tomatoes
      1 c  Small broccoli florets
    1/2 c  Chopped green peppers
    1/2 c  Chopped green onions
  1>. Heat oven to 375 deg.F. Separate dough into 4 long rectangles. Place
  rectangles crosswise in an ungreased 15 x 10 x 1-inch baking pan; presss
  over bottom and 1 inch up the sides. Seal perforations. Bake 14 to 19
  minutes or until golden brown. Cool completely. 2>. Blend sour cream,
  horseradish, salt and pepper until smooth. Spread evenly over crust. Top
  with remaining ingredients. Cut into appetizer-size pieces. Refrigerate.
      Title: Fried Catfish Batter
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Black pepper
      1 c  Cornmeal
      1 tb Sherry or brandy (optional)
      1    Jar prepared mustard
  *SOURCE: Recipe of Bill Rogers, Golf Director, San Antonio CC
  Catfish (Steaks, fillets or whole) Oil for frying.
  Heat oil until it pops when sprinkled with a drop of water.  Pat fish dry,
  then brush with mustard, (mixed with sherry or brandy if desired). Sift
  cornmeal, salt and pepper into bag.  Add 2 or 3 steaks or fillets, or 1
  whole fish; close and shake.  Drop fish carefully into hot oil; fry until
  lightly browned.  Drain well on paper.  Keep fish warm and crisp in a
  closed paper sack.
  Try fresh or canned potatoes fried with the same batter.  Tastes good.
  *Collection of Clarence Fontish*
      Title: Fried Deviled Camembert
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings:  4
      4    Pieces fairly firm Camembert
           -cheese (1.5 oz)
      2 ts All-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
    1/2 ts Dried mixed herbs
           Fresh ground pepper to taste
      1    Egg, beaten
    1/4 c  Dry bread crumbs
    1/2 ts Hot chili powder
      4 pn Cayenne pepper
           Vegetable oil for frying
           Fresh sage sprigs (opt)
           Fresh rosemary sprigs (opt)
           Fresh thyme sprigs (opt)
  Wrap and freeze cheese 1 hour.
  On a plate, combine flour, mustard, herbs and pepper. Dredge each piece of
  cheese thoroughly with mixture, then dip into egg. In small bowl, mix bread
  crumbs with chili powder and cayenne pepper. Coat dipped cheese portions in
  mixture, pressing on firmly with palms of hands.
  Half fill a deep-fat fryer or saucepan with oil. Heat to 375'F. (190'C.) or
  until a 1/2" cube of day-old bread browns in 40 seconds. Fry cheese about
  30 seconds or until golden brown. Drain on paper towels. Garnish with sage,
  rosemary and thyme sprigs, if desired, and serve at once.
      Title: Fried Fish Balls
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      3 lb Freshwater trout fillets,
           -cooked and flaked
    1/2 c  Finely chopped onion
    1/2 c  Finely chopped green pepper
      1 tb Chopped fresh parsley
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    3/4 c  Fine, dry breadcrumbs
      2    Eggs, beaten
    1/2 c  Milk
      2 ts Spicy brown mustard
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
  vegetable oil Cocktail sauce
  Combine first 11 ingredients in a large mixing bowl; mix well.  Shape into
  1-inch balls. (At this point, balls may be frozen: when ready to use,
  partially thaw and fry as directed below.)
  Fry croquettes in 2-inch deep hot oil (370) until golden brown.  Drain on
  paper towels.  Serve immediately with cocktail sauce.  Yield: 5-1/2 dozen.
  Note: This makes a delicious appetizer and may be made with any cooked
  fish.
  From: The Southern Heritage Sea and Stream CookBook Shared By: Pat Stockett
      Title: Fried Leeks with Tarragon
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  4
      4    Leeks, about 1-in thick,
           -white parts only
      1    Egg
           Salt & freshly ground pepper
      1 ts Finely chopped parsley
      1 ts Tarragon
           Flour; for dredging
           Oil for frying
           -canola, lt. olive or peanut
           Tarragon vinegar
  TRIM THE LEEKS: Cut off the roots but leave enough so that the leaves
  remain joined at the base. Slice them in half lengthwise down to the base
  but not through it, and rinse them well. Steam them over boiling water
  until they are tender when pierced with a knife, about 10 minutes, then set
  on a towel to cool and drain dry. Beat the egg on a plate and season with
  salt and pepper. Add the parsley and half the tarragon. Dip the leeks into
  the egg and slosh them around so that they are well covered, then dip them
  in flour to coat. Heat enough oil in a heavy pan to cover the bottom
  generously. When it is hot enough to sizzle a drop of water, add the leeks.
  Fry them, turning them frequently until they're nicely browned all over.
  Set them on a towel to drain briefly. Serve with the remaining tarragon
  sprinkled over the top and a cruet of vinegar on the side.
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
      Title: Fried Shrimp Dip
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  4
           Sugar
           Water
           Sweet Peppers
           Salt
           Vinegar
           Pineapple Juice
           Cornstarch
           Paprika
  Blend above ingredients to desired taste and serve with fried shrimp.
      Title: Fried Yam Puffs - Epok-Epok Keladi
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  6
  1 1/2 lb Yam cut into small pieces
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Msg
      2 tb Sugar (gula melaka
           -preferred)
      2 tb Softened butter
      2 tb Tapioca flour
           Stuffing Ingredients
      4 oz Prawns
      4 oz Meat, minced
      3 sm Onions chopped
      2 oz Frozen green peas
      1    Spring onion chopped
      2    Mushrooms diced
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Msg
      1 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Soy sauce
    1/2 ts Oyster sauce
    1/2 tb Cornflour in 3 T water
      2 tb Cooking oil
  Puff Ingredients
  1.  Steam yam until cooked.  Remove and mash. Leave to cool.
  2.  Heat cooking oil in pan.  Add prawns and meat and stir for 1 minute.
  Add onions, spring onion and mushrooms and stir for another minute.
  3.  Add salt, msg, sugar, soya sauce, oyster sauce and cornflour mixture.
  Stir well. Add in green peas and stir.  Remove and cool.
  4.  Put puff ingredients in a bowl and mix well.  Knead thoroughly.  Divide
  into 20-25 portions.
  5.  Roll each portion into a ball and flatten.
  6.  Put 1 t stuffing in centre of dough.  Moisten edges, fold over and
  seal.
  7.  Heat cooking oil for deep frying.  Deep fry until golden brown.  Serve
  Hot.
      Title: Fritto Misto
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  6
      2 c  Sifted flour
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Freshly ground pepper
      4    Eggs seperated
     12 oz Beer
      4 tb Melted butter
  Fritto Misto
  Pieces of vegetables, fish, seafood, cheese Oil for deep frying
  Sift together the flour, salt and pepper. Beat the egg yolks until light.
  Add the beer and mix into the dry ingredients, stirring only until
  well-blended.  Stir in the butter. Let stand at room temperature for 1 1/2
  hours. Beat the egg whites until stiff, then fold into the batter.  Heat
  the fat to 375 F.  Dip pieces of vegetables, fish, seafood and cheese into
  the batter and fry until golden borwn for 2 or 3 minutes.
  VARIATIONS...
  Almost any vegetable, fish or seafood wil do in one form or another for a
  mixed fry.
  Especially recommended...
  ONIONS/cut into 1/4 inch rings and coat with flour before dipping into the
  batter.
  EGGPLANT/Slice without peeling into half moons or rectangular fingers about
  1/2 inch thick. Coat with flour before dipping into batter.
  CAULIFLOWER/break into flowerets.
  BROCCOLI/Peel stems and cut vegetables into bite-size flowerets.
  TOMATOS/Do not peel. Cut into 1/2-inch slices. Discard the seeds and coat
  w/flour before dipping into batter.
  CHEESE/Use Gruyere, Swiss, or fontina cheese cut into 1-inch squares and
  1/2 inch thick.
  SHRIMP/Shell and devein raw shrimp, leaving the last segment of the tail
  intact.  Wash and dry with paper toweling. Dip n flour before dipping into
  batter.
  CRABMEAT/Select large pieces of lump crabmeat. Dust w/flour before dipping
  into batter.
  OYSTERS/Use whole. Dust w.flour before dipping into batter.
  LOBSTER or ROCK LOBSTER TAIL/Cut meat into 1/2 inch medallions. Dust
  w/flour before dipping into batter.
  FISH FILLETS/Cut into strips about 1-inch wide. Dust w.flour flour before
  dipping into batter.
      Title: Frosted Liver Pat
 Categories: Appetizers, Spreads
   Servings:  1
      1 lb Braunschweiger
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise or salad dressing
    1/4 c  Finely chopped onion
      1    Garlic clove, crushed
    1/2 ts Basil leaves
      8 oz Package cream cheese,
           - softened
      1    Garlic clove crushed
      3    Drops hot pepper sauce
      1 ts Mayonnaise or salad dressing
           Pimiento
           Parsley
  In a Medium bowl, mash braunschweiger with fork.  Add mayonnaise onion, 1
  garlic clove and basil leaves mix well.  Mound mixture on plate; cover and
  refrigerate at least 2 hours.
  In small bowl combine cream cheese, 1 garlic clove, hot pepper sauce and
  mayonnaise.  Frost braunschweiger with cheese mixture.  Refrigerate until
  serving time.  Just before serving, garnish with pimiento and parsley.
  Serve with dark rye snack bread or scrackers.
  Makes 3-1/2 cups.
  PER TABLESPOON: 60 calories.
  SOURCE: Summertime Favorite Recipes, by Pillsbury.
  Shared by Cate Vanicek.
      Title: Frozen Guacamole
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  4
  1 1/2 lb Avocados (2)
    1/4 c  Onion, finely chopped
      1 tb Canned chilli peppers
           - chopped
      1 md Tomato, peeled and chopped
  1 1/2 tb White vinegar
      1 ts Salt
  Halve avocados lengthwise; remove pits and peel.  Mash avacado in bowel
  with potato masher.  Add onion, chili pepper, vinegar and salt; mix well.
  Place in plastic freezer container and cover lightly and freeze.  To serve,
  let thaw; finely chop tomato; stir into avacado mixture.  Serve with raw
  vegetables, cooked shrimp or chips.
  Note: excellent fresh and good after frozen.
      Title: Fruit Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings:  5
           Jar Of Marshmellow Cream
      8 oz Cream Cheese
  Mix cream cheese and marshmellow cream together and put back in jar. Use
  with blueberries, bananas, strawberries.
      Title: Fruited Cheese Log
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings:  1
    1/2 c  Dried Apricots
      1 ts Poppy Seed (Optional)
      1 lb Monterey Jack Cheese, Shred
    1/2 ts Seasoned Salt
    1/3 c  Golden Raisins
      8 oz Cream Cheese, Softened
    1/3 c  Dates, Chopped
    1/3 c  Dry Sherry
           Walnuts, Chopped
           Cherries, Grapes For Garnish
  Soak apricots in 1 c water for 2 hours. Drain and chop. Blend cheeses. Add
  remaining ingredients, fruits last, mixing thoroughly in between. Turn out
  onto sheet of foil and shape into 9" log or 2 large balls. Wrap securely
  and chill until firm. Roll in chopped nuts, cover again in foil and
  refrigerate 24 hours before serving (may be frozen). Garnish.
      Title: Gado Gado
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      8 oz White cabbage
    1/4 c  Sesame oil
      1 lg Onion, cut in fourths,
           -thinly sliced
      1    Green bell pepper, seeded,
           -thinly sliced
      6 oz Fresh bean sprouts
      1    Fresh green chili, seeded,
           -finely chopped
      1    Garlic clove, crushed
      2    Shallots, finely chopped
    1/2 ts Ground cumin
    1/3 c  Smooth peanut butter
      3 tb Lemon juice
      3 dr Hot-pepper sauce
    1/3 c  Water
           Red bell pepper strips (opt)
  Finely shred cabbage, discarding stalk.
  Heat 2 tablespoons of sesame oil in a skillet. Add cabbage, onion, thinly
  sliced bell pepper, bean sprouts and chili and fry over fairly high heat
  3-4 minutes, stirring constantly. Remove from heat, spoon mixture into a
  serving dish; cool.
  To make sauce, heat remaining sesame oil in saucepan. Add garlic, shallots
  and cumin and fry gently 5 minutes. Add peanut butter and cook gently 2
  minutes. Stir in lemon juice, hot-pepper sauce and water and heat through
  gently to form a fairly thick sauce. Garnish sauce with bell pepper strips,
  if desired, and serve with cooled vegetables.
      Title: Gado-Gado
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      1 c  Chopped onion
      2 md Cloves crushed garlic
      1 c  Peanut butter
      1 tb Honey
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
           Juice of 1 lemon
      1 ts To 2 ts freshly-grated
           -ginger root
      1    Bay leaf
      1    Tablespoons cider vinegar
      3 c  Water
    1/2    To 1 tsp salt
      1 ds Of dark soy sauce
  In a saucepan, cook the onions, garlic, bay leaf and ginger in a little
  butter. When onion becomes translucent add remaining ingredients.  Mix
  thoroughly. Simmer on lowest possible heat 30 minutes, stirring
  occasionally.
      Title: Gamberi Alla Pasquale (Shrimp with Special Lemon Sauce)
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  4
     24    Shrimp, deveined
      2 tb Tomato paste
      1    Lemon, juice of
      2 oz Brandy
           Salt & pepper
      4 oz Heavy cream
      2    Drop Tabasco sauce
      2    Drop Worcestershire sauce
      1    Apple, cored and finely
           -chopped
      1 pn Chopped parsley
    1/2    Head lettuce, shredded
           Lemon wedges
  Servings: 4 Notes: "Everyone loves this recipe of mine so much that I
  decided to give it my own name. I hope you will love it too."
  DIRECTIONS: Cook the shrimp, and allow to cool.
  Meanwhile, mix the next 4 ingredients together in a bowl. Whip the cream
  until it is stiff and fold into the mixture in the bowl. Add the next 4
  ingredients and mix gently.
  Place some shredded lettuce in the bottom of large cocktail glasses and
  stand the shrimp up around the sides. Spoon the sauce into the middle and
  serve with lemon wedges.
  Source: La Cucina di Pasquale, Italian Gourmet Cooking, by Pasquale Carpino
  ISBN # 0-920197-01-9
  From: Sallie Austin
      Title: Garlic Buttered Shrimp
 Categories: Seafood, Barbecue, Appetizers
   Servings: 15
      1 lb Fresh peeled and deveined
           -shrimp
    1/4 c  Margarine or butter
      1    Clove garlic, minced
      1 tb Snipped fresh parsley
      1 ds Red pepper
      3 tb Dry white wine
  1.  For sauce, in a saucepan melt margarine or butter. Stir in garlic,
  parsley, and red pepper; cook about 1 minute.  Stir in wine; heat through.
  Set aside.
  2.  Thread shrimp onto 4 long or 8 short metal skewers.  Grill, uncovered,
  over medium-hot coals for 10-12 minutes or till pink, turning and brushing
  frequently with sauce.
  4 main-dish servings, or 15-18 appetizer servings.
      Title: Garlic Clam Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips, Seafood
   Servings:  8
      8 oz Cream Cheese
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 tb Garlic
      1 ds Fresh Ground Pepper
      7 oz Clams, Drained And Minced
    1/4 c  Clam Broth
  1 1/2 ts Worcestershire
      2 ts Lemon Juice
  Using garlic press, squeeze pulp and juice into softened cheese.  Cream
  with a spoon until smooth.  Gradually add the remaining ingredients,
  blending until smooth.  For thinner dip, add more clam broth. Serve with
  crackers, chips or veggies.
      Title: Garlic Coeurs a la Creme
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings:  8
      1 lb Low-Fat Cottage Cheese
      1 lb Cheese *
      1    Garlic Puree **
      2 c  Plain Yogurt
  *  Use either fresh, white goat cheese (Motrachet or Boucheron (scrape off
  coating of wood ash or buy without.) preferably), or use Cream Cheese. **
  Use the puree from 2 heads of Roasted Garlic.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Rub the cottage cheese through a sieve into a mixing bowl. With a wooden
  spoon, or electric mixer, beat the goat cheese and the garlic puree into
  the cottage cheese.  Beat in the yogurt. Line 8 coeurs a la creme molds
  with damp cheesecloth, allowing an overhang. Spoon mixture into molds, wrap
  an place on rack over a deep plate. Refrigerate overnight to drain. Unwrap
  and unmold onto 8 small plates.  Discard Cheesecloth. Serve with thin brown
  bread, toast, or bagels and slices of smoked salmon, if desired. SAVORY
  CREME: Lacking coeur a la creme molds, spoon mixture into a cheesecloth
  lined colander and refrigerate overnight to drain. Unmold onto a serving
  platter and allow each diner to scoop off a portion.
      Title: Garlic Mayonnaise Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings:  4
      1 ts Garlic, Minced
    1/4 c  Green Onion, Finely Chopped
    1/4 c  Olive Oil
      2 c  Mayonnaise
  Mix the garlic, chopped green onion tops and bottoms, and the oil
  thoroughly.  Add the mayonnaise and blend the mixture well, until the oil
  is absorbed into the mayonnaise.  Cover and chill. Makes about 2-1/2 cups
  of dip. SUGGESTED DIPPERS:  Asparagus, Red Bell Pepper, Broccoli, Potato
  Skins, Roast Beef, Turkey.
      Title: Garlic Olives
 Categories: Condiments, Appetizers
   Servings:  2
      2 c  Canned green olives; drained
      2    Garlic cloves; slivered
      3 sl Lemon (thin slices)
      1 ts Black peppercorns
      3    Bay leaves
           Whole sprigs dried thyme
           -OR- Basil -OR- oregano
           -(optional)
    1/4 c  Sherry or vinegar
           Olive oil
  Combine olives, garlic, lemon slices, peppercorns, bay leaves, sprigs of
  thyme and sherry in jar. Add oil to cover. Marinate at least 24 hours or
  overnight to blend flavors.
  Makes 2 cups
  (C) 1992 The Los Angeles Times
      Title: Garlic Stuffed Mushrooms
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings:  4
     12 md Mushrooms
      3 tb Unsalted Butter
      2    Scallions, Sliced
  1 1/2 tb Coarsely Ground Pecans
  1 1/2 tb Fresh Parmesan Cheese *
  1 1/2 tb Bread Crumbs
    1/4 c  Garlic Bechemel
           Salt (To Taste)
           Freshly Ground White Pepper
           Cayenne Pepper
      4 tb Unsalted Butter
      4 tb Unbleached All-Purpose Flour
  *  Grate the Fresh Parmesan Cheese for this recipe.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Preheat oven to 450 degrees F. Clean the mushrooms.  Remove the stems and
  reserve. Parboil the mushrooms in just enough water to cover, for 3
  minutes, until barely cooked.  Drain well, blot with paper towels, and set
  aside until needed. If the tip of the stems seem woody, trim them away.
  Chop stems coarsely. Melt 2 T of the butter in a skillet. Toss the chopped
  mushrooms stems and scallions.  Saute until tender and most of the mushroom
  juices have evaporated.  Toss in the pecans, bred crumbs, parmesan cheese,
  and remaining Tablespoon of butter. Stir until the butter is melted and
  absorbed. Stir in the garlic bechamel. Add salt and freshly ground pepper
  to taste. Stuff each mushroom cap with the mixture, mounding it neatly over
  the top. Sprinkle each with some cayenne pepper.  Put stuffed mushrooms in
  a lightly oiled, shallow baking dish.  Bake for 10 minutes or until heated
  through.  Serve at once. GARLIC BECHAMEL: 2-1/2 Cups scalded milk (More or
  less, depending on the thickness) 1 X salt and freshly ground white pepper
  to taste, 1 each large egg at room temperature. 1 X garlic puree from 3
  large heads of roasted garlic melt the butter in a heavy saucepan and whisk
  in the flour. Let this roux cook over low heat, stirring constantly for 3
  to 4 minutes. Whisk in the scalded milk. Bring to a boil. Reduce the heat
  and cook gently, stirring frequently, for 10 to 15 minutes. Add salt and
  pepper and whisk in the garlic puree. Remove from the heat. Beat the egg in
  a bowl.  Beat some of the sauce into the egg. Next beat the egg mixture
  back into the garlic sauce. Taste and correct seasonings. Store in the
  refrigerator, with plastic wrap placed directly on the surface of the
  sauce, until needed. Thin with milk before using if necessary.
      Title: Garlic, Cheese, and Nut Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese, Dips
   Servings:  4
      2    Garlic Cloves
    1/2 c  Cream Cheese, Softened
    1/2 c  Sour Cream
    1/4 c  White Onion, Diced
  1 1/2 ts Paprika
  1 1/2 ts Curry Powder
  1 1/2 ts Chili Powder
      1 ts Dried Dill, Crushed
      1 c  Cheddar, Sharp, Shredded
    1/3 c  Walnuts, Chopped
      1 tb Fresh Dill, Chopped
  Crush the garlic with a garlic press and beat into the cream cheese until
  the mixture is smooth.  Blend in the sour cream.  Mix in the onion, spices,
  and dill, blending well.  Fold in the cheddar cheese and nuts. May be
  served at room temperature or chilled.  Makes about 2-1/2 cups of dip.
  SUGGESTED DIPPERS:  Sesame Crackers, Celery, Radishes, String Beans.
      Title: Garlicky Clam Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood, Dips
   Servings:  8
      8 oz Cream Cheese
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 tb Garlic
      1 ds Fresh Ground Pepper
      7 oz Clams, Drained And Minced
    1/4 c  Clam Broth
  1 1/2 ts Worcestershire
      2 ts Lemon Juice
  Using garlic press, squeeze pulp and juice into softened cheese.  Cream
  with a spoon until smooth.  Gradually add the remaining ingredients,
  blending until smooth.  For thinner dip, add more clam broth. Serve with
  crackers, chips or veggies.
      Title: Garlicky Garbanzo Bean Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips, Beans
   Servings:  6
      3 c  Garbanzo Beans, Cooked
    1/4 c  Water
    1/2 c  Tahini, Sesame Paste
    1/3 c  Lemon Juice
      1 ts Cumin, Ground
----------------------------GARNISHES---------------------------------
           Lemon Slices
           Parsley, Chopped
           Paprika
  1 1/2 tb Garlic, Chopped
      1 tb Salt
      2 tb Olive Oil
  Puree the beans with the water in a food processor or blender to the
  consistency of a smooth, mashed-potatolike paste.  (The beans can also be
  mashed with the water by hand)  Add the tahini, lemon juice, garlic, salt
  and cumin.  Continue mixing until light and fluffy.  Put into a serving
  bowl and swirl in the olive oil.  Sprinkle on paprika and garnish with
  lemon slices and chopped parsley.  Serve at room temperature. Makes about 4
  ~1/4 cups of dip. SUGGESTED DIPPERS: Pita Bread Triangles, Celery, Carrots,
  Fennel, Cheddar Cheese.
      Title: Ginger Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings:  6
      1 c  Mayonnaise chilled
      1 c  Dairy sour cream
    1/4 c  Fine chopped onion
    1/4 c  Minced parsley
    1/4 c  Fine chopped canned water
           -chestnuts
      1 tb To 2 tb fine chopped candied
           -ginger
      2    Minced cloves garlic
      1 tb Soy sauce
  Combine mayonnaise and sour cream. Stir in remaining ingredients. Offer
  sesame seed crackers or potato chips.
      Title: Ginger Lime Dip
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  1
    1/2 c  Miracle Whip
    1/2 c  Sour Cream
      2 ts Grated Lime Peel
      1 tb Lime Juice
      1 tb Honey
    1/2 ts Ground Ginger
  Combine all ingredients and mix until well blended.  Cover and chill until
  serving time.  Makes 1 cup.  From: Los Angeles Times.
      Title: Gingered Shrimp Appetizer
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
   Servings:  4
      2 tb Teriyaki sauce
  1 1/2 ts Chopped pared ginger root
      2 tb Rice vinegar
      1 ts Dry sherry
    1/2 ts Granulated sugar
      1 ds Salt
      8 oz Shelled, deveined cooked
           -large shrimp
    1/2 md Cucumber, pared, cut into
           -sticks
  In small flameproof container or metal measuring cup bring teriyaki sauce
  to a boil.  Reduce heat to low, add ginger, and let simmer until liquid is
  slightly reduced, about 3 minutes.  Add vinegar, sherry, sugar, and salt
  and stir to combine; let simmer 3 minutes.  In glass or stainless -steel
  container large enough to hold shrimp in single layer arrange shrimp,; pour
  in teriyaki mixture aand toss to coat.  Cover with plastic wrap and
  refrigerate for at least 3 hours.  Use slotted spoon to remove shrimp to
  serving plate.  Pour marinade into small bowl and serve as dipping sauce
  with shrimp and cucumber.
  Makes 4 servings
  [WEIGHT WATCHERS NEW INTERNATIONAL COOKBOOK] Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Glazed Almond Brie
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings: 16
      1    Wheel imported Brie cheese *
           - well chilled
      2 tb Confectioners' sugar
    1/2 c  Sliced unblanched almonds
           Red & green seedless grapes
           - in clusters, for garnish
  *  The original recipe calls for "1 3/4-oz Wheel imported Brie". I think
  this might be an error, it could possibly be "One 3/4 LB wheel of Brie, but
  I don't know for sure.  -km-
  WITH A SMALL, flexible knife, cut away rind from top of chilled cheese. Be
  careful not to remove or split the rind on the sides. It will form a wall
  for the melted cheese. Sift 1 tablespoon of confectioners' sugar evenly
  over the surface and arrange almonds on top, pressing gently into place.
  The cheese can be prepared to this point as many as 2 days in advance.
  Cover loosely with foil and refrigerate. Bring to room temperature before
  heating, place rack 6 inches from heat source and preheat the broiler. Line
  large baking sheet with aluminum foil, place cheese on it and sift 1
  tablespoon of confectioners' sugar over nuts. Broil cheese until top is
  evenly browned--about 1 to 2 minutes. Rotate cheese, if necessary, for even
  browning. Watch carefully so it does not burn. Use foil to lift cheese and
  transfer it to serving platter. Tear foil and gently remove it. Garnish
  with clusters of grapes.
  Volume I of Abby Mandel's cookbook, "Fast and Flavorful" (Cuisinarts
  Cooking Club, Inc., 1985).
  ABBY MANDEL - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
      Title: Golden Citrus Raisin Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings:  6
      1 md Orange *
      1 c  Pecans, Chopped
      2 c  Golden Raisins
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
    1/2 c  Plain Yogurt
  * Remove seeds and quarter the orange but DO NOT peel.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Combine all of the ingredients in a food processor or blender and process
  to a chunky consistency.  Cover and chill. Makes about 4 1/2 cups of dip.
  SUGGESTED DIPPERS:  Ladyfingers, Plum Wafers, Pineapple, Ham, Chicken
  Drumettes, Celery.
      Title: Gourmandise W/ Pine Nuts
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings:  6
    1/4 c  Butter
      2 c  Shelled pine nut
      8    Wedges gourmandise cheese
  Melt butter in large skillet over medium-high heat. Add pine nuts and saute
  until golden. Remove from heat.
  Arrange cheese on individual plates and top with sauteed pine nuts.
      Title: Grant's Fry Batter
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      2 c  Buttermilk
      3    Eggs, lightly beaten
           Several dashes of Tabasco
           -Sauce
      3    Shakes Worchestershire Sauce
    1/4 ts Garlic salt
      1 ts Salt
           Lots of pepper  (to taste)
           Self-rising flour
  *SOURCE: Recipe of Bill Rogers, Golf Director, San Antonio CC
  Combine all ingredients except flour; blend well.  Dip fish or seafood,
  (bass, crappie, oysters, frog legs, shrimp, etc) in egg batter, then roll
  in flour.  Fry in moderately hot oil until golden brown.  If oil is too
  hot, batter will burn.  Vegetables are good in this batter (eggplant,
  squash, etc)  Strip fish into thin strips before dipping in batter.
  *Collection of Clarence Fontish*
      Title: Grape Jelly Meatballs
 Categories: Appetizers, Ground beef
   Servings:  2
      2    Bottles Chili Sauce
     10 oz Grape Jelly
      3 lb Ground Beef
  Make meatballs (onion, catsup, salt, pepper, bread crumbs, eggs, etc.). Put
  chili sauce and jelly in pan; melt jelly well. Put in meatballs and turn
  occasionally. Simmer on low for 2-1/2 hours.
      Title: Gratineed Oysters with Diced Apples in a Calvados Sabayon
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  4
      1 c  Heavy cream
      3    Egg yolks, lightly beaten
      2 tb Calvados
     16    Oysters in the half shell
      2    Apples; peeled and finely
           - diced (reserve in cold
           - water with the juice of
      1    Lemon
  In a small bowl place the heavy cream and whisk it for 3 to 5 minutes, or
  until it is softly whipped.  Add the egg yolks and the Calvados, and whisk
  them in.
  In each oyster half shell place the diced apple.  Place the oyster meat on
  top.  Cover it with the cream mixture.
  Place the oysters on a flat sheet and broil them for 1 to 2 minutes, or
  until the cream mixture is golden.
  Source: Antoine - Newport Beach, California "Southern California Beach
  Recipe" by Joan and Carl Stromquist ISBN: 0-622807-3-9
      Title: Green Chili Salsa Dip - Beware Very Hot
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips, Condiments
   Servings:  6
     12    Tomatillos, *
    1/2 c  Yellow Onion, Chopped
      5    Jalapeno Peppers **
  1 1/2 ts Garlic, Minced
  1 1/2 ts Fresh Tarragon, Chopped, OR
    1/2 ts Dried Tarragon, Crushed
    1/2 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Black Pepper
      3 tb Fresh Cilantro, Chopped
      2 tb Lime Juice
      2 tb Olive Oil
  *  Tomatillos are Mexican green tomatoes in husks.  Remove stems and seeds.
  ** Carefully split each pepper and remove the seeds. Wear eye protection.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Coarsely chop the tomatillos and place in a bowl.  Add all the other
  ingredients and mix well.  May be served at room temperature, or chilled.
  AGAIN BEWARE AS THIS DIP IS VERY VERY HOT Makes about 3-1/2 cups of dip.
  SUGGESTED DIPPERS: Corn Tortillas, Potato Skins, Celery, Jicama, Monterey
  Jack Cheese, Cheddar Cheese.
      Title: Green Oaks Cheese Spread
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
           Jim Vorheis
     16 oz Cream cheese
      1 lb Jar sharp Cheddar cheese
    1/4 lb Soft butter
    1/4 c  Dry sherry
      2 tb Dry vermouth
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
    1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
      2 dr To 3 dr Tabasco sauce
    1/2 ts Seasoned salt
    1/2 ts Celery salt
    1/4 ts Oregano
  Mix cheese with butter until thoroughly blended.  Add remaining ingredients
  and stir until well mixed.  Pack in a crock, cover and refrigerate. Bring
  to room temperature to serve with crackers.
  Colorado Cache Cookbook (1978) From the collection of Jim Vorheis
      Title: Green Onion Dip
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  1
      1 c  Miracle Whip
      1 c  Sour Cream
    1/2 c  Sliced Green Onion
    1/2 c  Parsley Sprigs
      1 ts Prepared Mustard
      1    Clove Crushed Garlic
  Place all ingredients in a blender bowl and process until almost smooth.
  Cover and chill until serving time.  Makes 2 cups.  From: Los Angeles
  Times.
      Title: Grilled Garden Pizza
 Categories: Appetizers, Pizza, Cheese
   Servings:  4
    2/3 c  Warm Water
      1 pk Active Dry Yeast
      1 tb Olive Oil
      2 ts Sugar
  1 1/3 c  All-Purpose Flour
    3/4 c  Quick Or Old-Fashioned Oats
    1/4 c  Romano Cheese
    1/2 c  Green Pepper, Sliced
    1/2 c  Red Onion, Thinly Sliced
      2    Cloves Garlic
    1/4 c  Chopped Fresh Basil Or
      4 ts Dried Basil
      2 c  Plum Tomatoes, Thinly Sliced
  1 1/2 c  Shredded Part-Skim Mozarella
  Combine first 4 ingredients; let stand 10 minutes or until foamy. In mixer
  bowl, combine flour and uncooked oats. On low speed of electric mixer,
  gradually add yeast mixture; mix an additional 2 minutes. (Dough will be
  soft.) Knead on floured surface 5 times. Place in medium bowl sprayed with
  no-stick cooking spray, turning once to coat. Cover; let rise in warm place
  30 minutes or until almost doubled. Punch dough down; divide into 4
  portions. On floured sureface pat each into 6 inch circle. Grill over
  medium hot coals 2 to 4 monites or until bottom is golden brown. Remove
  from grill. On rbowned side, layer remaining ingredients in order listed.
  Return to grill. Cover; cook 4 to 6 minutes or until bottom is golden brown
  and cheese begins to melt. To bake in oven: Heat overn to 425 degrees.
  Spray cookie sheet with no-stick cooking spray or oil lightly. Pat each
  portion or dough into 6-inch circle onto prepared sheet. Layer with Romano,
  1/2 of mozzarella, bell pepper, onion basil garlic and tomatoes. Bake 25
  minutes or until crust in golden brown. Sprinkle immediately with remaining
  cheese.
      Title: Grilled Sausage Tapas
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
    1/2 lb Fully cooked Smoked Sausage,
           -cut into 1-1/2 inch pieces
    1/2 lb Fully cooked Bratwurst, cut
           -into 1-1/2 inch pieces
    1/2 lb Fully cooked Thuringer or
           -Summer Sausage, cut into
           -1-1/2 inch pieces
     10    Pineapple chunks, drained
      1    Red Delicious Apple, cut
           -into wedges
      1    Summer Squash/Zucchini, cut
           -into 1 inch pieces
      2 sm Onions, parboiled, cut into
           -wedges
      4    Firm Plum or Cherry
           -Tomatoes, halved
      4 md To 6 md Whole Mushrooms
      1    Small Green and Red Bell
           -Pepper, cut into 1-1/2 inch
           -squares
           Lemon Pepper Marinade/Sauce
    3/4 c  Olive Oil
      3 tb Red Wine Vinegar
    1/3 c  Fresh Lemon Juice
      2 ts Grated Lemon Rind
      1    Clove Garlic, minced
      2 tb Sugar
    1/2 ts Thyme
    1/4 ts Fresh ground Pepper
    1/2 ts Salt
  In a large mixing bowl, add Lemon Pepper Marinade ingredients. Beat with a
  wire whisk until well blended. Add sausage pieces and coat well, turning
  with a spatula. Marinade in refrigerator at least 1 hour, turning
  occasionally. Preheat grill. Alternate sausage with fruit and vegetables on
  skewers in as attractive fashion. Place kabobs on grill; brush generously
  with remaining marinade. Grill 5 to 6 minutes - turning as needed. Brush
  with marinade. Serve immediately when hot. Yield: 8 to 10 Servings; 1-1/2 C
  marinade
  SOURCE: Barbara Block colum Oneida Daily Dispatch 7/2/92 SHARED BY:Jim
  Bodle 7/92
      Title: Grilled Seafood Kabobs
 Categories: Appetizers, Barbecue, Seafood
   Servings:  4
      1 lb Large Shrimp (Deveined)
      1 lb Fresh Sea Scallops
      1 lb Large Mushrooms
     17 oz Bottled Barbecue Sauce
    1/4 c  Honey
      4 tb Stone Ground Dijon Mustard
      8    Wooden Skewers
      2 lb Fresh Fruit (As Garnish)
  Combine the barbecue sauce, honey and mustard in a bowl and mix well. Place
  alternating groups of shrinp, sea scallops and mushrooms on the skewers.
  Place completed kabobs in a baking pan. Spoon the marinade over the kabobs
  and allow to set for 12 hours (or overnight) in the refrigerator. Grill
  over direct heat for 7 to 8 minutes or until the shrimp have turned pink,
  turing frequently to prevent burning.  Baste with marinade and use a
  covered grill to insure snokey flavor. Garnish with fresh fruit.
      Title: Grilled Shrimp
 Categories: Seafood, Barbecue, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
     48 lg Raw Cleaned Shrimp
           Water Soaked Bamboo Skewers
      2 tb Olive Oil
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Lemon Juice
    1/4 ts Cayenne Pepper
      2 tb Chopped Fresh Parsley
    1/4 ts Black Pepper
      1 tb Grated Ginger
    1/2 ts Dried Thyme
      2 ts Ground Coriander Seeds
  Soak the bamboo skewers 1 hour before using.  Devein shrimp using scissors,
  leaving the shell intact.  Mix all ingredients except shrimp until blended.
  Add the shrimp to the marinade and marinate for 30 minutes at room
  temperature or overnight in the refrigerator.  Drain and discard the
  marinade.  Thread the shrimp onto parallel skewers.  Cook 1-1/2 to 2
  minutes per side.  150 calories per main dish serving.  Makes 6 main dish
  servings or 10 appetizers.
      Title: Guacamole Dip #1
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings:  6
      1    Avocado, peeled and seeded
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Chopped canned green chiles
    1/2 c  Chopped tomato
      2 tb Mayonnaise
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Garlic powder
      4    Drops hot pepper sauce
  Cooked artichokes, chilled (optional)
  Puree avocado with lemon juice in blender. In small bowl, combine avocado
  mixture, green chiles, tomato, mayonnaise, salt, garlic powder and hot
  pepper sauce. Cover and chill 1 hour. Serve with chilled artichokes, if
  desired.
      Title: Guacamole Dip #2
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips, Syd's book
   Servings:  1
      2 lg Ripe Avocados
      1 tb Grated Onion
      1 tb Lemon Juice
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Chili Powder
    1/3 c  Miracle Whip
  Mix all ingredients together except the Miracle Whip.  Spread the Miracle
  Whip over the top, sealing edges.  Chill for 2 hours.  Mix the Miracle Whip
  into the dip.  Serve with potato chips, crackers or corn chips. From: Syd's
  Cookbook.
      Title: Guacamole Dip #3
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  1
    1/2 c  Miracle Whip
      1 lg Avocado, Peeled And Mashed
      1 sm Chopped Tomato
    1/4 c  Minced Onion
    1/4 c  Diced Green Chilies, Drained
      1 tb Lemon Juice
    1/2 ts Salt
  Combine all ingredients and mix until blended.  Cover and chill until
  serving time.  Makes 2 cups.  From: Los Angeles Times.
      Title: Guacamole #1
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  5
      1    Yellow Onion Quartered
      1    Juice Of 1/2 A Lemon
    1/3 c  Mayonnaise
    1/2 ts Crushed Chili Peppers
    1/2 ts Salt
      2    Ripe Avocados, Halved Pitted
  Put the metal blade chopping in your food procesor, then place the onion,
  lemon juice, mayonnaise, chili peppers and salt in the work bowl. Run the
  processor nonstop for 10 seconds.  The onion should be minced, and the
  other ingredients blended together. Use a tablespoon to scoop out large
  chunks of avocado into the work bowl. Clean out each avocado shell as
  thoroughly as possible.  Distribute the chunks of avocado around the
  chopping blade of the food processor.  Pulse process two or three times,
  until the mixture is churned, but lumpy (like cottage cheese).
      Title: Guacamole #2
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  8
      4    Avocados
    1/2 c  Green Chilis, Chopped
    1/2    Medium Tomato, Chopped
      2 ts Onion, Finely Chopped
      2 ts Mayonnaise
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Lemon Juice
    1/4 ts Garlic Salt
    1/2 ts White Pepper
    1/2 ts Worcestershire Sauce
  Peel and seed the avocados.  Add all ingredients and mash until smooth. The
  lemon juice will keep it from turning dark.
      Title: Hacienda Dip
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  6
      1 pk Cream cheese, softened
      1    Jar (250 ml) salsa
  Cream together cream cheese and alsa.  Chill for 1/2 hour.  Serve with
  Nacho or Tortilla chips.
  Origin:  Back of coupon for salsa Shared by: Sharon Stevens.
      Title: Ham and Cheese Ball
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings:  6
      1 c  Ground ham
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
      8 oz Cream cheese
    1/2 ts Lemon juice
      8 oz Shredded cheddar
           Onion powder to taste
      1 ts Tabasco sauce
  Mix all ingredients and chill.
      Title: Ham and Cheese Appetizers
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings:  6
      2 c  Bisquick baking mix
    3/4 c  Cooked smoked ham, (finely
           -chopped)
      1 c  Shredded Swiss or Cheddar
           -cheese
    1/2 c  Chopped onion (fine)
    1/2 c  Grated parmesan cheese
    1/4 c  Sour cream
      2 tb Smipped parsley
    1/2 ts Salt
      2    Clv garlic, crushed (cloves)
    2/3 c  Milk
      1    Egg
  FROM THE KITCHEN OF: Gary & Margie Hartford [Eugene, Oregon]
  Heat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease retangular pan 13x9 inches. Mix all
  ingredients; spread in pan. Bake until golden brown, 25 ot 30 minutes. Cut
  into rectangles, about 2x1 1/2 inches. 36 appetizers.
  NOTE: High altitude directions (3500 to 6500 ft), Heat oven to 375,and
  decrease baking mix to 1 3/4 cups add 1/4 cup all purpose flour.
  From: The recipe files of General Mills Inc. (1981) Shared 7/93
      Title: Ham Pate
 Categories: Pork, Appetizers, Spreads
   Servings:  4
     10 oz Piece Virginia ham
      2 tb Mayonnaise
      2 ts Mustard
      1 ts Prepared horseradish
      2 ts Dry sherry
  A similar dish is mentioned as being served in the White House in the last
  century.  While it does not measure up to the standards one would expect
  for a foreign dignitary or visiting head of state, this pate is great as a
  canape or spread for grilled sandwiches.
  salt and pepper to taste crackers or toast points chopped walnuts sliced
  artichoke hearts
  Grind the ham in a meat grinder or chop it very finely in a food processor
  using on off pulses.  Mis the ham with the mayonnaise,mustard, horseradish,
  and sherry, and add salt and pepper to taste. Serve thepate on crackers or
  toast points and garnish with the walnuts and artichokes, if desired.
  Serves 4 as an appetizer.
  Origin: Cookbook Digest, Mar/April 93 Shared by: Sharon Stevens.
      Title: Ham Pinwheels
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      1 pk 8 oz cream cheese, softened
      1 ts Horseradish
      1 pk 4oz thin ham or beef slices
      1 tb Grated onion
      1 ds Worchestershire sauce
  Blend cream cheese, onion, horseradish and Worchestershire sauce until of
  spreading consistency.  Seperate meat slices.  Lay our five slices,
  slightly overlapping on an 18" piece of aluninum foil.  Lay out two more
  rows to form a rectangle of meat.  Spread with cheese mixture.  Roll up as
  jelly roll using foil to bring up meat at begining of roll.  Use fingers to
  roll until complete.  Chill until very firm.  Just before serving, slice
  into one inch slices.
      Title: Ham Rolls
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese, Pork, Syd's book
   Servings: 16
     12 oz Softened Cream Cheese
     24    Chopped Stuffed Olives
      2 ts Prepared Horseradish
      4 tb Cream
           Salt And Pepper To Taste
      2 lb Rectangular Ham Slices
  Combine the cheese, olives, horseradish, cream and seasonings; mix well.
  Spread the cheese mixture on the ham slices.  Roll each slice and fasten
  with a cocktail toothpick.  Cut rolls into 1 inch pieces.  Place on a
  serving tray.  Serve with crackers.  From: Syd's Cookbook.
      Title: Harlequin Dip
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  1
    1/2 c  Sour cream
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
    1/2 c  Chopped, ripe olives
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/2 ts Prepared mustard
    1/2 ts Curry powder
  Blend sour cream and mayonnaise.  Add remaining ingredients; mix well,
  cover and refrigerate for 1 hour. Makes 1 1/2 cups Crisp carrot and celery
  sticks are the perfect go-withs for this dip.
      Title: Hawaiian Pate
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
           Jim Vorheis
  1 1/2 c  Butter
      1    Onion, chopped
  1 1/2 lb Chicken livers, cut up
    3/4 c  Chicken broth
      2 tb Dry sherry
    1/2 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Curry powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      2    Cloves garlic, crushed
    1/3 c  Brandy
      1 c  Chopped walnuts, toasted
      2 tb Unflavored gelatin
           Sliced stuffed olives
           Fresh pineapple top
  In a large skillet heat 1 cup butter and saute onion until golden. Add
  chicken livers and cook 10 minutes, stirring occasionally. Add sherry,
  seasonings. garlic and 1/2 cup broth. Cook 5 minutes. Puree mixture in
  blender.  Add 1/4 cup broth and gelatin to mixture and puree. Melt
  remaining butter and blend into puree with brandy. Stir in walnuts with a
  fork.  Chill overnight in refrigerator. Shape mixture with hands into
  pineapple shape.  Decorate "pineapple" with sliced stuffed olives and cap
  with a fresh pineapple top.  Serve with crackers.
  Colorado Cache Cookbook (1978) From the collection of Jim Vorheis
      Title: Herbed Cheese Spread
 Categories: Spreads, Dips, Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings:  4
      1 lb Ricotta cheese or other soft
           -fresh white cheese, such as
           -fromage blanc
           Or goat cheese
    1/2 c  Snipped fresh chives
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh parsley
      3 tb Finely chopped shallots
      2 tb Chopped fresh chervil or
           -additional parsley
    3/4 c  Whipping cream, beaten to
           -soft peaks
    1/4 c  Olive oil
  1 1/2 tb White wine vinegar
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
  A deliciously seasoned soft spread served as part of the cheese course at
  the restaurant Leon de Lyon in Lyons, France. Try it on walnut bread.
  Makes 4 cups.
  Thinly sliced french or walnut bread
  Using electric mixer, beat cheese with chives, parsley, shallots and
  chervil. Fold in whipped cream, oil, vinegar, salt and peper. Refrigerate
  until well chilled. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead.) Serve chilled with
  sliced bread.
  Origin: Favorite Restaurant Recipes, by Bon Appetit Shared by: Sharon
  Stevens
      Title: Herbed Cheese Tarts
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings: 24
    1/3 c  Fine dry bread crumbs or
           -finely crushed zwieback
      8 oz Pkg cream cheese, softened
    3/4 c  Cream-style cottage cheese
    1/2 c  Shredded Swiss cheese
      1 tb All-purpose flour
    1/4 ts Dried basil, crushed
    1/8 ts Garlic powder
      2    Eggs
  nonstick spray coating dairy sour cream (optional) sliced or slivered
  pitted ripe olives, red caviar OR chives (optional) roasted red papper OR
  pitted ripe olive cutouts* (optional)
  For crust, spray twenty-four 1 3/4 inch muffin cups with nonstick spray
  coating. Sprinkle bread crumbs or crushed zwieback onto bottom and sides to
  coat. Shake pans to remove excess crumbs. Set aside.
  In a small mixer bowl, combine cream cheese, cottage cheese, Swiss cheese,
  flour, basil, and garlic powder. Beat with an electric mixer on medium
  speed just till fluffy. Add eggs; beat on low speed just till combined. Do
  not overbeat.
  Fill each crumb-lined muffin cup with 1 tablespoon of the cheese mixture.
  Bake in a 375 degree F oven for 15 minutes or till centers appear set.
  (Tarts will puff during baking, then deflate as they cool.) Cool in pans on
  wire racks for 10 minutes. Remove from pans. Cool thoroughly on wire racks.
  To serve, spread tops with sour cream.  Garnish with olives, caviar,
  chives, and/or red pepper and olive cut-outs. Makes 24 tarts.
  TO REFRIGERATE:
  Bake and cool tarts as directed, except do not spread with sour cream or
  top with garnish. Cover and chill kin the refrigerator for up to 48 hours.
  Let tarts stand at room temperature for 30 minutes before serving. Spread
  with sour cream and garnish as directed.
  TO FREEZE:
  Bake and cool tarts as directed, except do not spread with sour cream or
  garnish. Freeze tarts, uncovered, on wire rack about 1 hour or till firm.
  Transfer to a freezer container or bag. Seal, label, and place in the
  freezer. To thaw, let stand, loosely covered, at room temperature about 2
  hours or in the refrigerator overnight. Spread with sour cream and garnish
  as directed.
  * Decorative cut-outs:  Use tiny hors d'oeuvre cutters to cut leaves,
  stars, or other decorative shapes out of the roasted red peppers and pitted
  ripe olives.
  From:  THE JOY OF HOLIDAY BAKING, Better Homes and Gardens, 11/90 Posted
  by:  Karin Brewer, Cooking Echo, 6/92
      Title: Herbed Chicken Pate
 Categories: Appetizers, Chicken
   Servings:  6
      2 lb Skinned/boned breast chicken
    2/3 c  White part only leek
    1/4 c  Shallots
    3/4 c  Unsalted butter
      3    Eggs whites only
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Freshly ground pepper
    1/8 ts Freshly grated nutmeg
  2 1/4 c  Well-chilled whipping cream
    1/2 c  Chicken broth
      2 c  Tight-packed leaves spinach
      2 c  Tight-packed leaves basil
    3/4 c  Well-chilled whipping cream
  (See also: Tomato & Garlic Sauce.) Cut chicken into 1/2-inch pieces. Puree
  in processor in 2 batches to very smooth paste. Refrigerate until well
  chilled, at least 1 hour.
  Meanwhile, thinly slice leek and shallot. Melt butter in heavy small
  skillet over low heat. Add leek and shallot and cook until soft, stirring
  occasionally, about 15 minutes. Cool.
  Combine half of chicken with half of leek mixture in processor. Puree until
  smooth. Add half of egg whites and process until smooth. Transfer to bowl.
  Repeat with remaining chicken, leek mixture and egg whites. Refrigerate
  until well chilled.
  Blend half of chicken mixture, salt, pepper and nutmeg in processor. With
  machine running, slowly pour 1 cup plus 2 tablespoons cream through feed
  tube. Blend 1 minute. Transfer to large bowl. Repeat with remaining
  chicken, salt, pepper, nutmeg and 1 cup plus 2 tablespoons cream. Combine
  both chicken mixtures.
  Bring chicken broth to boil in large skillet. Add spinach and basil and
  toss until just wilted, about 45 seconds. Drain well. Squeeze out any
  remaining liquid. Puree spinach mixture with remaining 3/4 cup cream until
  smooth. Blend in 1/4 of chicken mixture.
  Preheat oven to 350 deg. Line 9x5-inch loaf pan with plastic wrap, leaving
  5-inch overhang. Pour half of white chicken mixture into pan. Cover with
  half of spinach mixture. Using knife, swirl through layers to create marble
  effect. Repeat with remaining chicken and spinach. Tap pan on work surface
  to settle pate. Fold overlapping plastic over top of pate. Cover pan
  tightly with foil. Place loaf pan in deep roasting pan. Pour enough water
  into roasting pan to come 2/3 up sides of loaf pan. Transfer to oven and
  bake 1 1/4 hours. Cool. Weight pate with heavy object and refrigerate
  overnight.
  Unmold pate onto platter. Let stand at room temperature 1 hour before
  serving. Pass Tomato & Garlic Sauce separately.
      Title: Herbed Garlic Croutons
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  4
      4 tb Margarine, Unsalted
      2 x  Cloves Garlic, Minced
    1/2 ts Basil
    1/2 ts Oregano
      2 c  Whole Wheat Bread Cubes
  In a large skillet, heat margarine. Add seasonings. Cook for about 1 minute
  to soften. Stir in bread cubes and saute until browned and crisp. Scatter
  on tops of soups or salads just before serving. Makes 2 cups. VARIATIONS: -
  try other seasonings of your choice such as curry powder, chili powder, or
  thyme. To bake, toss bread slices in melted margarine or oil; then cut into
  cubes. Spread on ungreased baking sheet. Toast in 400 deg F oven for about
  10 minutes, turning occasionally, until golden brown and crisp. Store in
  tin at room temperature for 1-2 days; some of their crispness will be lost
  if stored in plastic container. They may be reheated and crisped in 350øF
  oven for 5 minutes.
      Title: Herbed Shrimp in Beer
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      2 lb Peeled raw shrimp
  1 1/2 c  Great western beer
      2    Cl Garlic, minced
      2 tb Chives, snipped
      2 tb Parsley, snipped
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
           Shredded lettuce
      2    Green onions, finely chopped
  1. Combine all ingredients except lettuce and green onions in a bowl.
  Cover, Refrigerate 8 hours or overnight; stir occasionally.  Drain, reserve
  marinade. 2. Broil shrimp 4 inches from heat until cooked and tender.
  (about 2 minutes on each side, less for small shrimp) Do not overcook or
  shrimp will become tough. Brush occasionally with marinade. 3. Serve shrimp
  on shredded lettuce; sprinkle with chopped green onion. (marinade may be
  heated and served for dipping, if desired) Makes 6 servings
      Title: Herbed Stuffed Eggs #1
 Categories: Appetizers, Eggs
   Servings:  6
  1 1/3 c  Fresh bread crumbs
      8 md Hard-cooked eggs
      3 tb Butter
    1/4 c  Minced fresh herbs *
           Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
    2/3 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
    2/3 c  All purpose flour
      2    Eggs beaten to blend
  vegetable oil for deep frying
  Preheat oven to 300 deg. Spread bread crumbs on baking sheet. Bake crumbs
  for about 10 minutes to dry.
  Peel eggs, halve and separate yolks from whites. Melt butter in heavy small
  skillet over low heat. Add herbs and stir until wilted, about 1 minute.
  Cool slightly. Mash yolks in small bowl. Stir in herb mixture. Season with
  salt and generous amount of pepper. Spoon herbed yolk mixture into egg
  whites.
  Combine bread crumbs and Parmesan in shallow bowl. Dip stuffed eggs in
  flour, then beaten egg; roll in bread crumbs, coating thoroughly.
  Refrigerate uncovered at least 20 minutes. (Can be prepared 6 hours ahead.)
  Heat oil in deep fryer to 360 deg. Fry eggs in batches (do not crowd) until
  golden brown, turning occasionally, 3 to 4 minutes. Drain on paper towels.
  Sprinkle with salt and serve.
  *Combine parsley with sage, rosemary or basil.
      Title: Herbed Stuffed Eggs #2
 Categories: Appetizers, Eggs
   Servings: 24
     12    Eggs; hard boiled
      2 tb Pimentos; finely chopped
    1/2 c  Garlic & Herb cheese spread
    1/4 c  Dijon mustard
    1/4 c  Mayonnaise
           Scallions; sliced for
           - garnish
    1/4 c  Scallions; finely chopped
  Halve eggs lengthwise. Scoop out yolks into a large bowl; set egg white
  halves aside. Mash yolks; blend in cheese spread, mayonnaise, scallions,
  pimentos and mustard until smooth.
  Spoon or pipe yolk mixture into egg white halves. Garnish with sliced
  scallions and serve.
  Source: Readers Digest, April 1993 Typed by .\\ichele
      Title: Hickory Smoked Cheese Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese, Dips
   Servings:  2
      1 c  Cottage Cheese
    1/2 c  Sour Cream
    1/4 ts Garlic, Minced
    1/2 ts Salt, Hickory Smoked
      1 tb Green Onion, Minced, Use All
  Blend the cottage cheese and sour cream until smooth.  Add the remaining
  ingredients blending well.  Cover and chill. Makes about 1 1/2 cups of dip.
  SUGGESTED DIPPERS:  Potato Chips, Water Crackers, Ham, Mushrooms, Snow Peas
      Title: Hidden Valley Ranch (R) Oyster Crackers
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings: 20
      1 pk Hidden Valley Ranch (R)
           Salad dressing mix
    1/2 ts Dill
    3/4 c  Salad oil
      5 c  Plain oyster crackers
  1>. Preheat oven to 250 deg.F. Combine salad dressing mix with dill and
  oil. Pour over crackers, stir to caot. Place in oven for 15 to 20 minutes.
  Stir gently halfway through baking.
      Title: Hidden Valley Ranch - Oyster Crackers
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings: 20
      1 pk Hidden Valley Ranch (R)
           Salad dressing mix
    1/2 ts Dill
    3/4 c  Salad oil
      5 c  Plain oyster crackers
  1>. Preheat oven to 250 deg.F. Combine salad dressing mix with dill and
  oil. Pour over crackers, stir to caot. Place in oven for 15 to 20 minutes.
  Stir gently halfway through baking.
      Title: Holiday Spinach & Artichoke Party Dip
 Categories: Dips, Entertain
   Servings: 12
      1    (16oz) carton (2 c.) sour
           -cream, lite or regular
      1    (1.0oz)envelope HIDDEN
           -VALLEY RANCH Original Ranch
           -Party Dip Mix
      1    (14oz) can artichoke hearts,
           -rinsed, drained, chopped
      1    (10oz) pkg. frozen chopped
           -spinach, thawed, well
           -drained
      1    (2 oz) jar diced pimientos,
           -rinsed, drained
      1 lg Round loaf bread, sourdough
           -or any variety
      1 lg Round loaf bread, sourdough
           -or any variety, cut into
  cubes for dipping Assorted vegetables for dipping
  Combine sour cream and party dip mix in medium bowl.  Stir in artichokes,
  spinach and pimientos.  Cut slice off top of round loaf of bread.  Hollow
  out center of bread leaving 1" shell.  Reserve bread pieces for dipping.
  Spoon dip into bread shell.  Serve warm or cold.  To serve warm, bake in
  preheated 400 degree oven for 20-25 minutes.  Cover loaf with foil in
  browning too quickly.  Serve with bread cubes and/or fresh veggies. Serves
  about 12.
      Title: Homemade Chips, Lo Cal
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  4
      1    Unpeeled Baking Potato
      2 tb Fat Free Italian Dressing
  Preheat oven to 500øF.  Lightly spray cookie sheet with vegetable cooking
  spray.  Slice unpeeled baking potato into very thin slices. In bowl, toss
  potato slices with dressing until evenly coated. Arrange potatos in single
  layer on cookie sheet.  Bake about 20 min. or until lightly browned on both
  sides, turning once after 10 min.
      Title: Hommous - Chick Pea Dip
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  1
      2 c  Cooked or canned chick-peas;
    2/3 c  Tahini (sesame paste)
    3/4 c  Lemon juice (to taste)
      2    Cloves garlic
      1    Parsley sprigs
  Place all ingredients but parsley in food processor or blender. Blend to a
  smooth paste. Place in a small platter or shallow bowl. If preferred,
  sprinkle olive oil on top and garnish with parsley sprigs and lemon wedges.
  Shared by Rita Taule, Prodigy ID# BTVC62A.
      Title: Honey Roasted Nuts
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      3 c  Nuts
      2 tb Margarine
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 c  Honey
    1/2 ts Grated orange peel
  Microcook all ingredients in bowl 4 to 7 minutes at high power, stirring
  halfway through cooking time.  Spread nuts on foil to cool.
      Title: Hoppel Poppel Tart
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  8
    1/3    BUTTER PASTRY dough
      1    Egg white, lightly beaten
    1/4 lb Bulk breakfast sausage
      2 tb Safflower oil
      4 c  Red Bliss potatoes, cut in
           -1/2-inch cubes
           (1 1/4 pounds)
  1 1/2 c  Coarsely chopped onions
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Ground black pepper
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh dill
    1/4 c  Mayonnaise or creamy salad
           -dressing
      1 tb Chopped parsley
  Preheat oven to 400 F. On lightly floured surface roll dough to a 14-inch
  round. Transfer to an 11-inch tart pan with removable bottom. Trim edges;
  prick bottom with tines of fork.  Line pastry shell with alumnum foil; fill
  with pastry weights, dried beans, or raw rice. Bake 15 minutes. Remove foil
  and weights.  Bake 5 to 6 minutes longer or just until pastry starts to
  turn golden.  Brush with egg white; bake 1 minute longer. Cool completely
  on wire rack. In large skillet, heat oil over medium heat. Add sausage and
  mash with fork to crumble into small pieces.  Add potatoes, onion, salt,
  and pepper.  Cook until potatoes are fork tender, stirring frequently,
  about 20 minutes.  Cool to room temperature. Reduce oven temperature to 350
  F. Stir dill and mayonnaise into potato mixture; spoon into tart shell.
  Bake 30 minutes or until heated through.  Cool 10 minutes on wire rack
  before removing outer ring.  Sprinkle with parsley.  Serve warm.
  Makes 8 servings.
  [ 1001 HOME IDEAS MAGAZINE; June 1990 ]
      Title: Horseradish Cheese Spread
 Categories: Dips, Spreads, Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings:  2
      1 lb Processed cheese, cut into
           -cubes
      1 c  Mayonnaise
    1/2 c  Horseradish
  assorted crackers
  Melt cheese in the top of a double boiler or microwave. Stir in mayonnaise
  and horseradish. Pour into a small crock or ceramic bowl. Chill. Serve with
  crackers.  Makes about 2-1/2 cups.
  Origin: Margie Wampler, in Reminisce March/April 1993 Shared by: Sharon
  Stevens
      Title: Hot 'n Spicy Artichoke Shrimp Dip
 Categories: Dips, Seafood, Microwave
   Servings:  1
     14 oz Artichoke Hearts
  4 1/4 oz Shrimp, Rinsed And Drained
      3 oz Cream Cheese, Softened
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
    1/2 c  Pace Picante Sauce
    1/4 c  Grated Parmesan Cheese
           Finely Julienned Red Pepper
           - Strips
           Thinly Sliced Green Onion
           - Tops
  Drain artichoke hearts; dice.  Add shrimp, cream cheese, mayonnaise, Pace
  Picante Sauce and Parmesan cheese; mix well.  Spoon into 9-inch round pie
  plate or shallow baking dish.  Bake at 350 degrees F for about 20 minutes
  or until heated through.  Garnish with red pepper and green onion.  Serve
  with chips and assorted vegetable dippers.  Makes about 2-1/2 cups dip.
  Microwave Oven Directions:  Cook in microwave oven at high for about 3
  minutes or until hot, stirring after each minute of cooking.
  From: Pace booklet.
      Title: Hot Artichoke Dip
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  1
    1/2 c  Miracle Whip
    1/2 c  Sour Cream
     14 oz Artichoke Hearts *
    1/3 c  Grated Parmesan Cheese
    1/8 ts Tabasco Sauce
  * Artichoke hearts should be drained and chopped.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Combine all ingredients and mix until blended.  Spoon into a small
  ovenproof dish.  Bake at 350øF for 30 minutes or until bubbly.  Makes 2
  cups.  From: Los Angeles Times.
      Title: Hot Bean Dip
 Categories: Dips, Appetizers
   Servings:  8
      8 oz Cream Cheese
    3/4 lb Cheddar cheese, shredded
    3/4 c  Monterey Jack cheese, shredd
      8 oz Sour cream
 10 1/2 oz Bean dip
    1/2 pk Taco Saesoning
      1 c  Green onion, chopped
     20    Drops Tabasco (tm)
  1. Reserve 1 c of each cheese for topping. 2 Beat cream cheese until
  smooth. 3. Add other ingredients. 4. Spread mixture into 9x13 glass dish
  and sprinkle with reserved cheese. 5. Bake at 350 for 30 min. 6. Serve with
  tortilla chips
      Title: Hot Brie with Toasted Almonds
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese, Eggs
   Servings: 20
      1 c  Slivered Blanched Almonds
      1    (8-in.) Wheel Brie
           Sesame Crackers (Optional)
  Sprinkle toasted almonds evenly over Brie. When ready to serve, place on
  wooden plank or board with handle and bake at 350øF until Brie begins to
  bulge around sides and is hot. Serve with sesame crackers, if desired.
  Created by: Sheila Ricci, Beverly Hills (C) 1992 The Los Angeles Times
      Title: Hot Cheddar Bean Dip
 Categories: Dips, Beans, Cheese
   Servings:  1
    1/2 c  Miracle Whip
     16 oz Pinto Beans, Drain, Mashed
      1 c  Shredded Cheddar Cheese
      4 oz Diced Green Chilies
    1/4 ts Tabasco Sauce
  Combine all ingredients until well blended.  Spoon into a small ovenproof
  dish.  Bake at 350øF for 30 minutes or until bubbly.  Makes 2-1/2 cups.
  From: Los Angeles Times.
      Title: Hot Crab Dip #1
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood, Cheese
   Servings:  8
      1 lb Crabmeat
      8 oz Cream Cheese, Softened
      1 md Onion, Finely Diced
      2 ts Horseradish
      1 tb Milk
      2 tb Worcestershire Sauce (Opt.)
           Salt And Pepper
           Almonds, Sliced
  Mix all ingredients except Almonds with fork. Place in uncovered casserole
  dish and bake at 350øF until bubbly, 20 to 30 minutes. Sliced Almonds may
  be sprinkled on top before baking. Serve with crackers.
      Title: Hot Crab Dip #2
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  1
      3 oz Cream Cheese
    1/2 c  Miracle Whip
      6 oz Drained Crabmeat
    1/4 c  Minced Onion
      1 tb Lemon Juice
    1/8 ts Tabasco Sauce
  Beat cream cheese until smooth.  Stir in remaining ingredients.  Spoon into
  a small ovenproof dish.  Bake at 350øF for 30 minutes or until bubbly.
  Makes 1 cup.  From: Los Angeles Times.
      Title: Hot Crab Dip #3
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  5
      8 oz Cream cheese
      1 tb Milk
    1/2 ts Horseradish
           Pepper
      1 pk Crabmeat
      2 tb Onions chopped
    1/4 ts Salt
  Mix all of the ingredients (not in a blender or food processor).  Put in a
  baking dish and top with either sliced almonds or paprika.  Bake in a 375F
  oven for 15 minutes.  Serve with chips.
      Title: Hot Crab Fondue
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  1
      1    Jar sharp cheese (5 oz.)
      1    Cream cheese (8 oz. package)
    1/4 c  White dry wine
      1 cn Crab, drained and flaked
           8 1/2 oz. size
    1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/4 ts Garlic salt
    1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
           French bread, cut in cubes
  In top of double boiler, combine cheese until melted and smooth. Add
  remaining ingredients.  Stir well.  If thickens, add more wine. Should make
  about 2 1/2 cups.
      Title: Hot Crabmeat Spread
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      8 oz Cream cheese
      1 cn Crabmeat
      1 ds Worcestershire sauce
      1 ds Lemon juice
  Soften cream cheese.  Drain crabmeat and break into small pieces.  Mix all
  ingredients together.  Bake at 350 degrees (F) until cream cheese is
  "goey", about 20 to 25 minutes. Serve hot with crackers.
      Title: Hotter Than Heck Horseradish Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings:  6
      4 ts Horseradish, Prepared
      1 ts Garlic Powder
      2 c  Sour Cream
      1 ts White Pepper
  Mix the horseradish and garlic powder blending well.  Add the sour cream
  and the white pepper, again blending well.  Cover and chill. Makes about
  2-1/4 cups of dip. SUGGESTED DIPPERS:  Rolls Of Sliced Roast Beef, Steamed
  Cauliflower, Bell Peppers, Potato Chips, Snow Peas.
      Title: Hummous Bi Tahini
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings:  6
      2 cn Chick-peas (about 4 cups)
      4 lg Garlic cloves
    2/3 c  Olive oil
    1/2 c  Tahini paste
      1 ts Ground cumin
  1 1/2 ts Salt; pepper to taste
      2    Lemons (juiced,pits removed)
    1/4 ts Vitamin C crystals
  Drain and rinse chick-peas. Mince garlic in processor first. Then add chick
  peas, olive oil, tahini, lemon juice, salt, pepper, cumin, and vitamin C.
  Process until mixture is completely smooth. Serve chilled or at room
  temperature with pita bread or crackers. Garnish with paprika, olives and
  parsley. Lemon juice may be replaced with 1/2 t. citric acid dissolved in 6
  oz. hot water.
  From the sunny kitchen of Matt Rosen, White Rock, BC.  Enjoy!!
      Title: Hummus #1
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      1 tb Safflower Oil
      2 tb Chopped Onion
           Clove garlic, Minced
    1/4 c  Minced Fresh Parsley
      1 ts Basil
    1/4 ts Ground Coriander
    1/4 ts Oregano
    1/4 ts Black Pepper
     15 oz Can Drained Chick Peas
      3 tb Lemon Juice
      2 tb Toasted Sesame Seeds
      1 ds Cumin
  GARNISH: lemon wedges, cherry tomatoes, or fresh parsley sprigs (opt) In a
  small skillet, heat oil; saute onion and garlic until onion is softened.
  Add seasonings. Stir just long enough to soften parsley. In food processor,
  combine rinsed and drained chick peas and lemon juice; process until
  smooth. Stir in onion and herb mixture; stir in sesame seeds. Spoon into
  serving bowl. Top with garnish if desired. VARIATIONS: 1. Substitute 15-oz
  can Great Northern beans for chick peas.  Use only 2 T lemon juice, since
  this is a moister bean. 2. Replace chick peas with 1/2 lb firm tofu (1 cup)
  and 1/2 cup tahini; use only 1 T lemon juice and add 1 T soy sauce.
      Title: Hummus #2
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
     31 oz Chick Peas
      1    Liquid *
      6 tb Tahini **
    1/3 c  Lemon Juice or To Taste
      3 lg Cloves Garlic
           Salt & Fresh Ground Pepper
----------------------------GARINISHES---------------------------------
           Olive Oil
      1    Paprika
           Chopped Fresh Parsley
  *   Liquid shoud be 1/4 of the liquid from 1 can of chick peas. ** Tahini
  is (seame seed paste) is available in Milddle Eastern Food Shops and many
  of the larger supermarkets featuring Ethnic Foods.
  Combine all ingredients, except garinshes, in blender or food processor
  container.  Blend to a smooth, creamy paste.  Taste and add mor lemon juice
  or salt to suit your taste.  It should be the creamy consistency of mashed
  potatoes.  Thin with chick pea liquid or water if necessary. Scrape into an
  attractive bowl,  Color olive oil with a bit of paprika. Drizzle oil over
  the surface in a decorative pattern and sprinkle with parsley. Serve with
  wedges of pita bread and raw vegetables.
      Title: Hummus #3
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  1
      2 c  Dry chick peas
      1 lb Jar tahini
      3    Garlic cloves
    1/4 c  Soy sauce, natural (tamari)
      1    Lemon
           Onion
           Water from cooked beans
      2 ts Cumin, powdered (optional)
           Paprika for garnish
           Parsley for garnish
  Soak beans overnight.  Drain and place on cookie sheet.  Freeze several
  hours.  cook frozen beans in double amount of water with onion in it or
  cook in a pressure cooker instead of freezing first.  Blend cooked beans
  (pureeing while still warm makes blending easier) and onion a little at a
  time, using as much water as necessary to keep blender going.  Add garlic
  cloves, soy sauce and lemon juice to taste along with beans.  If you're
  using cumin, add it now. When all beans have been blended with other
  ingredients to a thick sauce, place in a large bowl. Add one jar of tahini
  and mix well, adding more tamari, garlic, or lemon juice if a stronger
  flavor is desired. (add more water for thinner consistency.) Place on a
  shallow dish, spread smoothly and sprinkle with paprika and parsley. Serve
  with pita strips, use as a sandwich spread, or stuff into celery.
  VARIATIONS: a) Avocado Hoomus: mash in 1 large ripe avocado  b) Eggplant
  Hoomus:  mash in one medium baked eggplant (no skin) and mix with cumin
  added to garbanzo tahini blend.
  /\/\ara kent
      Title: Hungarian Spiced Cheese Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese, Dips
   Servings:  2
      1 c  Cottage Cheese
      2 ts Hungarian Paprika
      1 ts Caraway Seeds
      1 ts Capers, Mashed
    1/2 ts Mustard, Dry
    1/2 c  Sour Cream
      2 tb Green Onion, Chopped,Use All
  Strain the cottage cheese in a colander to remove the excess water then
  cream in a blender or food processor or with an electric mixer.  Put into a
  bowl and add the paprika, caraway seeds, capers, mustard and green onion.
  Blend all of the ingredients together until almost smooth.  Blend in the
  sour cream.  Cover and chill. Makes about 1 3/4 cups of dip. SUGGESTED
  DIPPERS:  Chicken, String Beans, Cherry Tomatoes, Chili Peppers
      Title: Impossible Cheddar and Broccoli Appetizers
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings: 30
     10 oz Frozen chopped broccoli*
      8 oz Whole kernal corn; drained
    1/4 c  Onion; chopped
    1/2 c  Walnuts; coarsely chopped
    1/2 c  Milk
    1/4 c  Butter; melted
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Bisquick
    1/4 ts Garlic salt
      1 c  Cheddar cheese; shredded
  *Thaw and drain the broccoli.  Heat oven to 375.
   Grease a 9x9x2" pan. Mix broccoli, corn, onion and walnuts. Place in pan.
  Beat remaining ingred. except cheese until smooth, 15 sec. in blender on
  high, stopping blender frequently to scrape sides if necessary, or 1 min.
  with electric mixer on high.
   Pour evenly into pan.  Bake until knife inserted in center comes out
  clean, 23-25 min.; sprinkle with cheese. Bake until cheese is melted, 2-3
  minutes longer. cool 30 minutes. Cut into triangles or squares. Makes 30
  appetizers. FROM: BISQUICK RECIPE CLUB LISA CRAWLEY TSPN00B Lawrence Kellie
  Conf: (1010) F-COOKING
      Title: Indian Chicken Balls
 Categories: Appetizers, Chicken
   Servings: 36
    1/2 lb Cream cheese
      2 tb Mayonnaise
      1 c  Chopped cooked chicken
      1 c  Blanched almonds or pecans,
           -chopped
      1 tb Chopped chutney
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Curry powder
    1/2 c  Of grated coconut
  Beat together cream cheese and mayonnaise. Add chicken, almonds, chutney,
  salt and curry powder. Shape into walnut sized balls and roll in coconut.
  Chill.  Makes 36 balls.
  Randy Rigg
      Title: Italian Marinated Mushrooms
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      1 lb Fresh mushrooms
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Olive oil (vegetable oil may
           -be substituted) <shudder>
      2    Green onions with tops,
           -thinly sliced
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh parsley
      1    Clove garlic, finely chopped
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Freshly ground pepper
  In propitiation, may I offer Italian Marinated Mushrooms (not too original,
  I'm still fighting off the cobbies to locate Grandma's secret kitchen
  diary):
  Paprika Parsley sprigs Bread sticks (optional)
  Cut mushrooms into 1/8-inch slices.  Mix mushroom slices and lemon juice in
  large bowl (glass or plastic).  Stir in oil, onions, 1/4 cup parsley, the
  garlic, slat, and pepper.  Toss; cover and refrigerate at least 3 hours,
  stirring occasionally.
  Just before serving, remove from mixing bowl to serving bowl, using slotted
  spoon.  Sprinkle with paprika.  Garnish with parsley sprigs.  Serve with
  long, thin bread sticks if desired.
      Title: Italian Pepper Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings:  2
     12 oz Italian Creamy Dressing
    1/2 c  Sweet Red Pepper
    1/4 c  Chopped Fresh Parsley
  In a small bowl, combine all ingredients. Cover and refrigerate until
  serving time, about 2 hours. Serve with cold shrimp, crackers or fresh
  vegetables for dipping.
      Title: Jalapenos Stuffed with Chorizo and Cream Cheese
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      1 tb Finely minced onion
      1    Clove garlic, finely minced
      3 oz Chorizo (Mexican sausage)
      2 oz Cream cheese, softened
      1 tb Sour cream
           Salt to taste
     12    Jalapenos, seeded, halved
           -and deribbed
   Heat oil in a skillet and saute onion and garlic over medium heat 2-3
  minutes, until transparent. Add chorizo and cook 5 minutes, breaking up
  meat with a fork as it cooks.
   When fully cooked, remove skillet from heat and cool slightly, then stir
  in cheese and spor cream, season with salt and spoon intp jalapenos; serve.
  Source: Houston Chronicle
      Title: Jalepeno Cheese Crackers
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  1
      3 oz Cheddar cheese; 1/2" cubes
           -about 1/2 cup
      1 tb Jalapeno pepper
           -seeded & minced or to taste
    1/3 c  Butter; cold,
           -cut in 1/2" cubes
    3/4 c  Flour; all purpose
    1/4 c  Cornmeal
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Chili powder
    1/4 ts Mustard; dry
      4 tb -Water; ice
  Preheat oven to 400F. Process cheese and jalapeno in food processor till
  chopped in 1/4" pieces. Add butter, pulse on and off till size of small
  peas. Stir flour with cornmeal, salt, chili powder and mustard in small
  bowl till blended. Add to mixture in processor, pulse on and off just till
  blended. Sprinkle water evenly over mixture in processor. Pulse on and off
  just till dough begins to form into a ball. Shape dough into 8" disk. Wrap
  in plastic wrap; refrigerate till firm enough to roll, about 30 minutes. On
  floured surface, roll dough to 1/4" thickness. Cut in 2" rounds with cookie
  cutter or wine glass. Transfer to ungreased baking sheet. Prick each
  cracker once with fork. Bake in preheated oven for 10 to 12 minutes or till
  crisp. Transfer  to rack to cool. Store in airtight container. Makes 50
  crackers. Source: The Toronto Star
      Title: Jamaican Beef Patties
 Categories: Beef, Appetizers
   Servings: 24
      4 c  All purpose flour
      1 ts Salt
  1 1/4 c  Shortening
      6    To 8 Tbsp ice water
           Filling:
      1 lg Onion, diced fine
      4    Garlic cloves, minced
      3    Jalapeno chilies, seeded,
           -stemmed, and minced
      3 tb Vegetable oil
    3/4 lb Ground beef
      2 ts Each ground coriander,
           -cumin, and tumeric
      1 ts Each ground allspice and
           -cinnamon
      1    Green bell pepper, stemmed,
           -seeded, and finely chopped
      4    Tomatoes minced
      1 bn Green onions, minced
           Salt and pepper to taste
      2    Eggs, lightly beaten
  Servings: 24 patties
  Pastry:
  Preheat the oven to 400 deg F.  To make the dough: place the flour and salt
  in a large bowl; mix well.  Cut the shortening into small pieces about the
  size of walnuts.  Add to the flour and, using your fingers, rub the flour
  and shortening together, making a coarse, mealy dough.  Add the ice water
  and gather the dough into a ball.  The dough should be firm and not sticky.
  If the dough is too dry, add a little more water, but if the dough is too
  sticky, add just enough flour to make it form a ball. Divide the dough into
  2 equal balls and cover with plastic wrap. Refrigerate for at least 2 hours
  or up to 2 days.
  To make the filling: in a large skillet, cook the onion, garlic, and
  chilies in the oil over moderate heat for about 10 minutes, stirring from
  time to time.  Add the beef, herbs, spices, bell pepper, and tomatoes, and
  cook over high heat for 5 minutes, stirring constantly until the mixture is
  thick and saucy.  Add the green onions and cook for 1 minute. Season with
  salt and pepper and cool to room temperature.
  To assemble the patties:  on a lightly floured surface, divide each ball
  into 2 equal balls, so that you have 4 equal balls.  Flatten into disc
  shapes, then divide each disc into 6 equal pieces and roll each into a
  ball.  Roll each ball into a 3 1/2 inch diameter circle.  Brush the edges
  with beaten egg.  Place about 1 tablespoon of filling on one side of each
  circle, leaving a 1/4 inch border.  Fold the dough over, making a half-moon
  shape.  Seal the edges with the tines of a fork, and brush with the
  remaining egg.
  Bake on a lightly greased baking sheet for 25 to 30 minutes, or until the
  patties are golden brown.  Remove from the oven and serve immediately.
  Source: Rolled, Wrapped, and Stuffed by Janet Hazen Posted by Linda Davis
      Title: Jerky
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  1
           Meat;(beef, deer, etc.)
           Soy Sauce
           Brown Sugar
           Cooking Oil
      2 tb Coarsely ground black pepper
      2 tb Garlic powder
      2 tb Lawry's Seasoned Salt
      2 tb Gebhardt Chili powder
  Cut meat into 1 1/2 by 1/4 by 5 inch strips.
  Soak meat in a mixture of Soy sauce, 1 T. brown sugar and 1 T. oil for 2 to
  4 hours.
  Pat dry.
  Mix seasonings well and place in a clean shaker.  (Ed. note:  why not
  specify a dirty shaker?  Might make it more authentic!)
  Using a foil-covered cookie sheet, place meat (1 layer) and sprinkle mix
  over it to taste.
  Fold foil edges up to keep in mixture.
  Dry at 140 to 180 degrees for 5 to 8 hours.
  Keep in open container at room temperature.  Do NOT refrigerate. From:
  Wesley Pitts From Anne MacClellan disk 7/24/93
      Title: Ketchup
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  6
      4    Gallons Ripe Tomatoes
      2    Onions
      5    Stalks Celery
      2    Green Peppers
      3 c  Granulated Sugar
      2 c  Apple Cider Vinegar
    1/4 ts Ground Cloves
    1/2 ts Allspice
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      3 tb Salt
  Cut top stem ends off of the tomatoes and peppers.  Rinse all the
  vegetables.  Cook tomatoes, onions, celery and peppers together until soft
  and mushy.  Force through a food press or very fine strainer. Place the
  strained mixture in a soup kettle and add the remaining ingredients. Boil
  10 minutes.  Pour into hot, sterilized jars and seal. Makes about 6 Pints.
      Title: Lamb Tartare
 Categories: Appetizers, Lamb
   Servings:  6
     18 oz Well-trimmed lamb from loin
           -chop
     12 ts Medium ground cracked wheat
           -*
     12 ts Water
    1/4 c  Minced green onion
    1/4 c  Minced fresh parsley
      2 tb Minced fresh basil
      1 tb Minced fresh oregano
      1 tb Minced fresh marjoram
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Freshly ground pepper
      1 pn Red pepper flake
  garnish cherry tomato garnish sliced cucumber garnish sliced lemon garnish
  fresh sprigs basil
  Cut lamb into 1-inch cubes and grind in processor to consistency of
  hamburger using on/off turns. Transfer to large bowl. Sprinkle with 2
  teaspoons wheat and then 2 teaspoons water; knead into meat, punching down
  with fist and turning. Repeat with remaining wheat and water in 5 more
  additions, kneading in green onion, parsley, basil, oregano, marjoram,
  salt, pepper and red pepper flakes with last addition. Line small
  round-bottomed bowl with plastic. Fill with lamb, smoothing top. Cover
  tightly with plastic. Refrigerate up to 3 hours before serving.
  Unmold lamb in center of platter. Sprinkle with additional minced, fresh
  herbs and green onion. Surround with tomatoes, cucumber and lemon and
  garnish with basil sprig. Serve with garlic toast.
  *Available at natural foods stores.
      Title: Larry Dunlap's World Famous Stuffed Mushrooms
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
     40 lg Capped Fresh Mushrooms
    1/2 c  Progresso Italian
           -Breadcrumbs
    1/4 lb Bacon
  Wash mushrooms and carefully remove the stems from the center of the caps.
  Place the caps into a suitable flat baking pan with hole from the stem up.
  Fry the bacon until it is crunchy. Chop the stems from the mushrooms very
  finely with a chopper. In a large bowl mix the chopped stems, 1/2 cup
  breadcrumbs, and fried bacon (including the bacon grease for flavor). Fill
  each cap until heaped with the stuffing mixture. Heat in microwave or oven
  until hot.
      Title: Layered Fiesta Dip
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  6
      1 pk (250 gram) spreadable cream
           -cheese
      1 cn (454 gram) refried beans
      1    Jar (250 gram) salsa
      1 c  EACH.. grated Cheddar and
           -Monterey Jack cheese
    1/4 c  (50 ml) EACH.. chopped
           -jalapeno peppers, chopped
           -black olives
  On a large dinner plate or platter, spread a thin layer of each ingredient
  in the order listed above.  Serve with Nacho's or Tortilla Chips.
  Origin:  Back of coupon for salsa Shared by: Sharon Stevens.
      Title: Lemon Tarragon Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings:  4
      4 ts Fresh Tarragon, Chopped, Or
      4 ts Dried Tarragon, Crushed
      1 ts Lemon Juice
      1 c  Mayonnaise
      2 ts Capers
  Mix all the ingredients, blending well.  Cover and chill.  Makes about
  1-1/4 cups of dip. SUGGESTED DIPPERS:  Seafood, Turkey, French Bread,
  Fennel, Yellow Zucchini, Carrots.
      Title: Lemon-Basil Carrot Bundles
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings: 20
      6 md Carrots Scraped
    1/4 c  Water
      1 tb Lemon Juice
      1 ts Sugar
      1 cl Garlic Minced
      1 ts Dried Whole Basil
    1/4 ts Grated Lemon Rind
      1 tb Olive Oil
      6    Green Onions
      3    Lemons Thinly Sliced
  Cut Carrots Into 80 (2 /1/4 Inch) Strips.  Combine Carrots, Water, Lemon
  Juice, Sugar & Garlic in A Nonaluminum Saucepan; Cover. Cookover Medium
  Heat 6 To 8 Min. OR Until Carrots Are Crisp-Tender. Remove From Heat. Place
  Carrots in A Shall Bowl; Reserving Cooking Liquid in Saucepan. Add Basil,
  Lemon Rind & Oil To Cooking Liquid & Set Aside. Trim White Portion From
  Green Onions.  Place Tops in A Large Boil. Add Boiling Water To Cover.
  Drain Immediately & Rinse Under Cold Water. Cut Tops Into 20 Narrow Strips.
  Gather 4 Carrot Strips Into A Bundle & Tie With Onion Strip. Repeat
  Procedure With Remainingcarrots & Onions Strips. Place Bundles in A Large
  Shallow Bowl. Pour Basil Mixture Over Bundles; Cover & Chill At Least 1
  Hour. Remove Bundles From Liquid, Using A Slotted Spoon; Discard Liquid.
  Arrange Bundles On A Serving Platter Lined With Lemon Slices If Desired.
    Fat 0.3. Chol. 0.
      Title: Lemon-Orzo Pilaf
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  4
 14 3/4 cn Chicken broth,reduced-sodium
      1 c  Water
      1 c  Orzo pasta
      1 ts Dried leaf basil,crumbled
      1 ts Grated lemon rind
  Bring chicken broth and water to boiling in medium-size saucepan. Stir in
  orzo, basil and lemon. Return to boiling. Lower heat and simmer 10 minutes
  or until tender. Remove from heat and serve.
      Title: Light Spinach Dip
 Categories: Dips, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      4 sm Bunches fresh spinach (2
           -lbs), well washed, stems
           -removed and
  Makes about 6 cups Dip
  LIGHT SPINACH DIP From Cook It Light Classics by Jeanne Jones.
  chopped, or two 10-oz packages frozen chopped spinach, thawed 6 Tbsp
  dehydrated minced or chopped onion 3 Tbsp unbleached all-purpose flour 1
  Tbsp instant nonfat dry milk 1/2 tsp onion powder 1/2 tsp sugar 1/4 tsp
  turmeric 1/2 tsp salt 3 scallions, chopped (2/3 cup) 1 (8 oz) can sliced
  water chestnuts, drained and chopped 1 1/2 cups light sour cream 1 cup
  reduced-calorie mayonnaise
  If using fresh spinach, steam it over rapidly boiling water 1 to 2 minutes,
  until tender, then drain well.  If using frozen, simply squeeze out the
  excess moisture but do not cook. In a small bowl, combine the dehydrated
  onion, flour, dry milk, onion powder, sugar, turmeric, and salt. In a
  medium-size bowl, combine the remaining ingredients with the drained
  spinach. Add the dry ingredients to the spinach mixture and mix well. Chill
  for several hours. Serve in a hollowed-out bread round, if desired.
  Makes about 6 cups.  1/4 cup contains approximately: calories - 67,
  cholesterol - 9mg, fat - 5g, sodium - 133mg.
      Title: Light-Style Fiesta Shrimp Dip
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  1
     10 oz Frozen cooked shrimp,
           -thawed, rinsed and drained
      1 pk Light cream cheese, softened
           -(8 oz)
    1/4 c  Light mayonnaise
    1/3 c  Thinly sliced green onions
           -with tops
    2/3 c  Pace Picante Sauce
      2 ts Horseradish, as desired
    3/4 ts Ground cumin
  Finely chop shrimp, reserving a few whole shrimp for garnish. Combine cream
  cheese and mayonnaise; mix well. Reserve 1 tablespoon green onions for
  garnish. Stir remaining green onions and remaining ingredients into cream
  cheese mixture; mix well. Spoon into serving bowl. Chill at least 2 hours
  or up to 24 hours. Stir; garnish with reserved shrimp and green onions.
  Serve with assorted vegetable dippers.
  Makes about 2 cups.
      Title: Linda's Potato Skins
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      6 md Baking potatoes
    3/4 c  Cheddar cheese, shredded
    1/3 c  Butter
      6 sl Bacon, fried and crumbled
    1/3 c  Green onion, thinly sliced
           Salt & Pepper
           *-*-*
    1/3 c  Milk | You can add these
           -ingredients to the
    1/4 c  Butter | mashed potato
           -centers for mashed
  Salt & Pepper  |  potatoes, if desired. *-*-*
  Scrubb potatoes, dry, then pierce with fork several times.  Arrange on a
  baking sheet and bake in 375 degree oven for about 1 hour or until tender.
  Let stand until cook enough to handle.  Cut potatoes in half lengthwise and
  scoop out centers, leaving 1/8" potato in shell.  Cover. Chill shells up to
  2 days until ready to use for the skins.
  If desired, add the 1/3 cup milk, 1/4 cup butter, salt & pepper to use
  potato centers as mashed potatoes.
  When ready to prepare skins, melt the 1/3 cup butter.  Brush shells with
  the butter, inside and out.  Place, cut side up, on baking sheet.  Bake in
  a 500 degree oven for 20 minutes or until brown and crisp.
  Distribute some bacon, onion, and cheese in each shell.  Bake just until
  cheese melts.  Serve hot.  If the potatoes are large, you may want to cut
  in half crosswise before serving.
  You may want to double this recipe if you are serving several people,
  especially if they are hungry!
  From:  Linda Rehberg, courtesy Debbie Carlson - Cooking Echo Serves: 6
      Title: Liptauer Cheese #1
 Categories: Cheese, Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  1
      6 oz Cream Cheese, Softened
    1/4 c  Butter, Softened
      1 ts Sweet Paprika
      1 ts Capers, Drained
      2 fl Anchovy Fillets *
      1    Shallot, Minced
    1/2 ts Caraway Seeds
           Crackers Or Toast Points
  * Anchovies should be drained and dried.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  In a bowl, cream together the cream cheese, and butter.  Add paprika,
  capers, anchovies, shallot, caraway seeds, and salt and pepper to taste.
  Combine mixture well.  Pack into a crock and chill, covered for 1 day to
  meld flavors. Serve cheese with crackers or toast points. From: Lipto,
  Hungary. A 1947 Gourmet Magazine favorite.
      Title: Liptauer Cheese #2
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
           Jim Vorheis
    1/2 lb Butter
      1 lb Cream cheese
  1 1/2 ts Caraway seeds
      1 tb Grated onion
      2 ts Chopped parsley
      2 ts Chopped capers
  1 1/2 ts Prepared mustard
  Soften butter and cream cheese.  Combine all ingredients.  Pack in a crock
  and sprinkle with parsley.  This can be made into a ball and rolled in
  parsley.  Serve with crackers.
  Colorado Cache Cookbook (1978) From the collection of Jim Vorheis
      Title: Little Pigs in Blankets
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  1
           Oyster
        sl Bacon
  Wrap thin slices of bacon around large oysters and fasten ends together
  with a toothpick. Place under hot flame and broil, turning frequently,
  until crisp and brown. Serve immediately. Source: Pennsylvania Dutch Cook
  Book - Fine Old Recipes, Culinary Arts Press, 1936.
      Title: Little Wieners and Orange Sauce
 Categories: Appetizers, Pork
   Servings:  5
      2 pk Hot Dogs (Cut Into Bites)
    1/2 c  Sugar
      3 tb Cornstarch
  1 1/2 c  Orange Juice
      8    Cloves Whole
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 c  Vinegar
  Put sugar, cornstarch, orange juice, cloves, cinnamon and vingar in a
  saucepan and thicken on low heat.  Once sauce has thickened, put in hot
  dogs, just until heated through.
      Title: Liver Loaf
 Categories: Veal, Appetizers, Pork
   Servings:  4
    1/2 lb Veal or pork stew meat
    3/4 lb Liver
    1/2 lb Bacon; diced
      2    Eggs
      4 tb Chopped fresh sage
      2 tb Minced garlic
    1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
  Call this an American pate, if you like. Serve it with sour pickles, brown
  mustard and pumpernickel bread.
  COMBINE ALL INGREDIENTS in a glass bowl, cover and refrigerate overnight.
  The next day, grind the mixture twice using a meat grinder fitted with a
  large die. Or pulse until well combined, but not too smooth, in a food
  processor. Place the mixture in a loaf pan, cover tightly, place the loaf
  pan in a water bath, and place in preheated 375F oven until done, about 1
  1/4 hours. Remove from the oven, unmold and serve immediately. Or place the
  loaf under a 3-pound weight, let cool to room temperature and then chill in
  refrigerator before serving.
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
      Title: Lobster Fondue Dip
 Categories: Seafood, Dips
   Servings:  1
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      2 c  Shredded sharp Cheddar
           -Cheese
    1/4 ts Red pepper sauce
    1/3 c  Dry white wine
      5 oz Lobster cut into small
           -pieces (you can use canned
           -but drain well)
  Serve this hot cheese dip and offer crisp cracker dippers.
  Melt butter in pan over low heat.  Gradually add and stir in cheese until
  cheese is melted. (Cheese butter mixture may appear separated.)  Add red
  pepper sauce; slowly add wine, stirring until mixture is smooth.  Add
  lobster; stir until heated.  Makes about 1 1/2 cups.
      Title: Lobster Pate
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
           Jim Vorheis
      8 oz Cream cheese, softened
    1/4 c  Dry white wine
    1/2 ts Onion salt
    1/2 ts Seasoned salt
    1/8 ts Dill weed
  1 1/2 c  Lobster meat, finely chopped
  Beat cheese and wine until smooth and creamy.  Blend in salts and dill; add
  lobster.  cover and refrigerate several hours or overnight to mellow. Serve
  with crackers.
  Colorado Cache Cookbook (1978) From the collection of Jim Vorheis
      Title: Lobster Spread
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  6
    1/2 lb Finely chopped cooked
           -lobster meat
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
  chopped green onion freshly ground pepper
  Combine all ingredients. Pack into decorative bowl. Cover and chill 2
  hours. Serve with crackers.
      Title: Longhorn Quick Chili Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese, Dips
   Servings:  4
      1 c  Cottage Cheese
     15 oz Chili With Beans
  1 1/2 ts Cumin, Ground
    3/4 c  Cheddar, Sharp, Shredded
      1 tb Hot Sauce
      1 tb Lemon Juice
  Cream the cottage cheese in a blender or food processor or with an electric
  mixer.  Blend the chili in, mixing well.  Add the hot sauce, lemon juice
  and cumin.  Pour into a bowl and blend in the cheddar cheese, reserving a
  little for a garnish.  Cover and chill. Makes about 3 3/4 cups of dip.
  SUGGESTED DIPPERS:  Tortilla Chips, Celery, Cucumber, Bread Sticks, Deli
  Meats, Pickled Baby Corn, Carrots
      Title: Louis Dressing
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  1
      1 c  Mayonnaise, use the real
           -thing, like Hellmann's
    1/2 c  Chili sauce
      1 tb Parsley, fresh, minced
      1 ts Lemon juice, fresh, not
           -bottled
      1 ts Horseradish, prepared
    1/2 ts Onion, grated
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      Stir ingredients together.  Cover and chill. Makes 1-1/2 cups. Good as
  a salad dressing or dip, wonderful with boiled shrimp as an alternative to
  ketchup-based dip, and fantastic with Onion Mums. Recipe from Hellmann's
  Mayonnaise.
      Title: Low Calorie Clam Dip for Vegetables
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  1
      1 cn Gorton's Clams, drained
      1 ts Chopped chives
      1 c  Cottage cheese
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Thyme
  Combine all ingredients; mix well.  Serve as a dip for raw vegetables.
  Makes approximately 1-1/3 cups.
  Shared By: Pat Stockett
      Title: Lower East Side Lox
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese, Dips, Seafood
   Servings:  4
      1 c  Cream Cheese, Softened
    1/2 c  Sour Cream
    1/2 c  Lox Or Smoked Salmon, Cubed
    1/4 c  Fresh Chives, Chopped, OR
      4 ts Dried Chives, Crushed
    1/8 ts White Pepper
      1 ts Whipping Cream
      2 tb Onion, White, Chopped
  Beat the cream cheese to a smooth consistency and blend in the sour cream.
  Mix in the lox thoroughly.  Stir in all of the other ingredients.  Cover
  and chill. Makes about 2 1/2 cups of dip. SUGGESTED DIPPERS: Bagel Chips,
  Tomatoes, Radishes, Cucumber, Scallions, and Figs.
      Title: Madras Dip
 Categories: Dips, Appetizers, Eggs
   Servings:  4
      2    Hard-Boiled Eggs
      2 c  Sour Cream
      2 c  Curry Powder
      1 ts Onion (Grated)
      2 tb Green Pepper (Grated)
      2 tb Celery (Grated)
           Seasonings
  Add diced eggs to all other ingredients which have been smoothly blended in
  blender.  Consistency is thin.  Chill; sprinkle with paprika and serve with
  corn chips.
      Title: Marinated Prawns
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  8
      3 lb Prawns, Cooked And Cleaned
      1    Onion, Sliced
      4    Cloves Garlic
      1 pn Oregano
      6    Whole Chilis
      1 c  Oil
      2 c  White Vinegar
      2    Carrots, Parboiled, Sliced
           Salt And Pepper To Taste
      1 cn Stuffed Green Olives & Juice
  Saute 1/2 onion and 2 cloves garlic in oil.  Remove and discard.  Add
  vinegar, garlic, onions, chilis, oregano and carrots.  Bring to a boil,
  allow to cool.  Add prawns and boil.  Leave in refrigerator for 2 days.
      Title: Marinated Mushrooms #1
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  8
      1 lb Mushrooms
    1/4 c  White wine
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb White wine vinegar
      2 tb Olive oil
    1/4 c  Minced shallots or onions
      1 tb Minced garlic
    1/2 ts Ground coriander
           Salt; to taste
           White pepper; to taste
  RUB THE MUSHROOMS of any debris and set aside. Combine all other
  ingredients in a pot, cover and bring to a boil over high heat. Add the
  mushrooms, replace the cover and lower the heat to medium. Cook until the
  mushrooms release their juices, about 3 minutes. Pour the contents of the
  pot into a bowl and chill before serving.
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
      Title: Marinated Spiced Olives
 Categories: Appetizers, Condiments
   Servings:  6
    3/4 c  Pitted ripe olives
    3/4 c  Pimiento-stuffed green
           -olives
      3    Lemon slices
      3    Dried red chilies
      2    Garlic cloves, crushed
      1 ts Mustard seeds
      1 ts Black peppercorns
      3    Allspice berries
  1 3/4 c  Olive oil
  Add lemon slices, chilies, garlic, mustard seeds, peppercorns and allspice
  berries. Stir in olive oil and mix well. Spoon mixture into a large jar
  with a tight-fitting lid. Screw on lid tightly and turn jar over several
  times to ensure ingredients are well mixed.
  Let olives marinate at least 1 week before serving, turning jar several
  times a day. Store up to 6 months in a cool place.
  NOTE: Use a mixture of corn oil and olive oil for a more economical
  marinade. Add sprigs of dried herbs to marinade, if desired. To serve,
  garnish with lemon twists and a fresh parsley sprig, if desired.
      Title: Marinated Beef Roll
 Categories: Appetizers, Beef
   Servings:  8
    1/2 c  Pimento, diced
    1/4 c  Olives, green, Spanish
    1/4 c  Eggplant, chopped, pickled
    1/4 c  Onions, sliced, green
      2 tb Parsley, chopped
      2    Eggs, hard cooked, quartered
           Salt
           Pepper
      6    Roast beef, deli, thin slice
-----------------------------MARINADE----------------------------------
    1/2 c  Oil, olive, fruity
    1/2 c  Parsley, minced
    1/4 c  Lemon juice, fresh
      2 ts Capers, minced
    3/4 ts Garlic, minced
    1/2 ts Basil leaves, dried
    1/2 ts Thyme leaves, dried
      1    Bay leaf
           Salt
           Pepper
  In food processor bowl fitted with steel knife, place pimento, olives,
  eggplant, green onion and parsley.  Process until minced.  Add eggs; pulse
  10 or 12 times to combine, scraping down sides once.  Season with salt and
  pepper.  Spread approximately 1/4 cup egg mixture evenly over each slice of
  roast beef, leaving 1/2-inch border around edges.  Roll tightly and secure
  with toothpicks.  Place seam side down in a shallow baking dish.
  MARINADE:  Whisk together oil, parsley, lemon juice, capers, garlic, basil,
  thyme, bay leaf, salt and pepper in bowl; pour over beef rolls. marinate 1
  hour in refrigerator, turning occasionally.  To serve, cut each beef roll
  crosswise into 1 1/2-inch pieces, spooning marinade over beef rolls.
      Title: Marinated Broccoli Chunks
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  8
      1 tb Rice Vinegar
      1 tb Olive Oil
    1/4 ts Dried Dillweed
      1 cl Garlic Minced
      2 lb Fresh Broccoli
           Red Cabbage Leaves
           Fresh Dill Sprig (Opt)
           Pimiento Strips
  Combine Vinegar, Olive Oil, Dillweed & Garlic in A Medium Bowl, Stirring
  Well With A Wire Whisk.  Set Aside. Trim Large Leaves From Broccoli. Remove
  Flowerets & Reserve For Another Use. Remove Tough Ends Of Lower Stalks &
  Discard.  Wash Remaining Stalks & Cut Diagonally Into 1/2 Inch Slices. Add
  2 C. Broccoli Slices To Vinegar Mixture.  Toss Gently To Coat. Reserve Any
  Remaining Slices For Another Use.  Cover Coated Broccoli Slices & Chill 3
  Hours. To Serve, Place Broccoli On A Cabbage-Lined Serving Plate. Garnish
  With Dill & Pimiento. (Fat 1.8. Chol. 0.)
      Title: Marinated Mushrooms #2
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      1 lb Fresh mushrooms
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
    1/2 c  Red wine vinegar
      6 tb Sherry
      4 tb Sugar
      1 c  Finely minced onions
  Mix all ingredients but the mushrooms in a saucepan and bring to a boil.
  Pour over mushrooms that have been cleaned and halved or quartered
  depending on size.  Marinate and chill fo 24 hours before serving. Small
  button mushrooms can be used whole.
      Title: Marinated Shrimp Kabobs
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  1
           Shrimp
      8 oz Pace Picante Sauce
      8 oz Bottled Italian dressing
  Cook peeled and deveined shrimp in boiling water just 'til they turn pink
  (watch closely - overcooking makes shrimp tough characters). Drain and
  place in a bowl. Pour Pace and Italian dressing over hot shrimp, mixing
  well. Cover and chill at least 2 or up to 24 hours, stirring occasionally.
  In another bowl, chill crisp-tender cooked broccoli florets and uncooked
  cherry tomatoes in equal parts of Pace Picante Sauce and Italian dressing,
  stirring occasionally. Just before serving, drain and arrange shrimp,
  broccoli florets and tomatoes on short, thin skewers or long cocktail
  picks. Arrange on a lettuce-lined platter to serve.
      Title: Marmaliga
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      2 c  Water
      2 c  Milk
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Yellow cornmeal
    1/4 c  Butter/margerine
  Cottage Cheese (Optional) Sour Cream (Optional) Grated Parmesan Cheese
  (Optional)
  In a saucepan combine first 5 ingredients.  Bring to a boil, stirring
  constantly and cook until butter is melted and mixture is thick, about
  15--20 minutes.  Serve topped with a spoonful of cottage cheese and sour
  cream. (Marmaliga can also be served plain or sprinkled with grated
  Parmesan Cheese.)   Serves 6.
      Title: Martha's Rye Spread (Bon Appetit/july 1983)
 Categories: Appetizers, Entertain
   Servings:  1
  1 1/2 c  Sour cream
  1 1/2 c  Mayonnaise
      6 oz Chopped corned beef
      2 tb Minced onion
      2 tb Minced fresh parsley
      2 ts Dill seed
      1    To 2 ts Beau Monde seasoning
      1    Small rye loaf
           Cocktail rye slicews
  Combine first seven ingredients in large bowl and mix thoroughly. Cover and
  refrigerate overnight.  Spoon dip into hollowed loaf and serve with
  cocktail rye slices.
      Title: Maryland Crab Cakes
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      6 sl White bread
    3/4 c  Olive oil
      3    Eggs--seperated
    1/4 ts Dry mustard
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Worcestershire Sauce
  1 1/2 lb Crab meat
           Paprika
      3 tb Butter
  Maryland Crab Cakes
  Trim crusts from bread and lay slices on a shallow platter. Pour oil over
  them and let stand until bread is thoroughly saturated.  Use forks to break
  into small pieces. Combine egg yolks with mustard, salt and Worcestershire
  sauce. Beat lightly.  Stir in bread and crab meat, gently fold in stiffly
  beaten egg whites, and shape mixture into patties. Sprinkle with paprika
  and saute in heated butter until golden on both sides.
      Title: Maryland Style Crab Cakes
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      1 lb Crab meat
    1/4 c  Mayonnaise
           - (preferably homemade)
      2 tb Minced parsley
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Soft bread crumbs
      2 lg Eggs; beaten
      8 tb Butter
  GENTLY BLEND ALL INGREDIENTS, except the butter. Shape into 8-10 crab cakes
  and refrigerate 30 minutes. Melt butter in a large skillet and saute crab
  cakes until golden brown on all sides, 5-7 minutes. Serve with lemon wedges
  or an appropriate sauce.
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
      Title: Maui Onion Rings
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  4
  1 1/4 c  Flour
      1 tb Cornstarch
           Salt, cracked black pepper
     12 oz Killian's red or other ale
      3    Maui onions
           Oil for deep frying
  Combine flour, cornstarch and salt and pepper to taste in large bowl.
  Whisk in ale until smooth. Cut onions into 1/4- to 1/3-inch-thick slices.
  Heat oil in deep fryer to 400F. Coat onion rings with batter.
  Gently add to hot oil without crowding pan and cook until golden brown.
  Remove with slotted spoon and drain on paper towels.
  Makes 4 to 6 servings
  Created by: Michael's, Santa Monica
  (C) 1992 The Los Angeles Times
      Title: Mexi-Cali Layered Dip
 Categories: Dips, Cheese
   Servings:  1
      1    Ripe Avocado, Peeled
           - Seeded And Mashed
      1 c  Pace Picante Sauce
      1 ts Lemon Juice
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 md Tomato, Chopped
    1/2 c  Thinly Sliced Ripe Olives
    3/4 c  Sour Cream
    1/2 c  Shredded Cheddar Or Monterey
           - Jack Cheese
  Combine avocado, 2 tablespoons Pace Picante Sauce, lemon juice and salt;
  mix well.  Stir in tomato.  Spoon evenly onto bottom of shallow 1-quart
  clear glass bowl (straight sides preferred).  Top with olives; cover and
  chill.  To serve, top olives evenly with sour cream..  Spoon remaining Pace
  Picante Sauce over sour cream, sprinkle with cheese.  Serve with tortilla
  chips or corn chips.  Makes about 3-1/2 cups dip.
  From: Pace booklet.
      Title: Mexican Appetizer
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  1
      1    (8 oz) package cream
           -cheese, softened
    1/2    Jar thick and chunky
           -picante sauce
    1/2    Jar dried beef, chopped
      8    -10 flour tortilla shells
      1 c  Cheese, grated
           -Paprika
  Mix cream cheese, picante sauce and dried beef until creamy. (You may chop
  the dried beef in a food processor, then add the other two ingredients and
  mix.) Place one tortilla shell on serving dish and spread with a layer of
  the mixture.  Repeat this process until you have a stack of 8 to 10
  tortilla shells with cream cheese layers between. Cover with plastic wrap
  and refrigerate overnight.  Cut into wedges to serve. Sprinkle with grated
  cheese and paprika.  If desired, serve with sour cream, guacamole, or extra
  picante sauce on the side. The grated cheese can also be added to the cream
  cheese mixture rather than sprinkled on top.
  From: Stephanie Da Silva              Date: 07-19-93
      Title: Mexican Bean Dip
 Categories: Dips, Cheese, Pork, Beans, Microwave
   Servings:  1
      4    Slices Bacon, Small Pieces
     31 oz Pork & Beans In Tomato Sauce
    1/2 c  Shredded Sharp Cheddar
      1 ts Garlic Salt
      1 ts Chili Powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Vinegar
      2 ts Worcestershire Sauce
           Cayenne Pepper
  Place bacon pieces in a 1-1/2 quart glass casserole. Microwave 3-4 minutes
  or until crisp. Remove bacon and set aside. Place beans in blender and
  blend until smooth; pour into bacon drippings.  Stir in remaining
  ingredients except bacon. Cover with glass lid or plastic wrap. Microwave
  for 7-8 minutes or until mixture is hot in center. Sprinkle top with bacon
  pieces.
      Title: Mexican Cheese Dip
 Categories: Dips, Cheese
   Servings:  2
      2 tb Butter
      1    Onion, small
      1    Garlic Clove, minced
      2 tb Jalapeno or Chili Pepper
      2 tb All Purpose Flour
      1 c  Milk
      1    Tomato, medium, chopped
      1 c  Cheddar Cheese, shredded
  Combine butter, onion, garlic, and peppers in a 4 cup microwavable
  casserole. Microwave uncovered at High for 2 - 3 minutes or until softened.
  Blend in flour and microwave at High for 30 seconds. Gradually whisk in
  milk until smooth. Add tomatoes; microwave, covered at High for 3 5 minutes
  or until mixture comes to a boil and thickens, whisking once. Stir in
  cheese until melted. Serve warm with tortilla chips or veggies. Makes 2
  cups.
      Title: Mexican Chicken Wings
 Categories: Appetizers, Poultry
   Servings: 12
     15 x  Minutes preparation time
     45 x  Minutes cook time
---------------------------INGREDIENTS--------------------------------
    1/2 c  Corn oil
    1/4 c  Chili powder
      1 ts Oregano
      1 ts Ground cumin
     12 oz Tortilla corn chips
      1 lb Chicken wings; disjointed
           -and tips discarded
  1.  Preheat oven to 350F.  In a small bowl, whisk together the oil, chili
  powder, oregano, and cumin to blend well.
  2.  Pulverize the tortilla chips in a food processor.  Pour into a shallow
  bowl.
  3.  Dip the chicken pieces in the seasoned oil; then dredge in the ground
  chips until coated.  Set on a foil-lined baking sheet and bake for 45
  minutes, until browned and crisp outside and tender inside.  Serve hot.
  From:  365 Ways to Cook Chicken
      Title: Mexican Dairy Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips, Cheese, Beans
   Servings: 10
      1 pk Cream cheese spread
      1 cn (14oz) refried beans
      2 ts Chili powder
    1/2 ts EACH of cumin, salt, hot
           -pepper sauce
  LAYER #1
  Blend all ingredients.  Spread in bottom of springform pan.  Chill one
  hour.
  LAYER #2 1 cup cottage cheese 1 large avocado, peeled and chopped 2 tbsp
  EACH of diced green chilies and onion 1 garlic clove, minced 1 tbsp lemon
  juice 1/2 tsp salt
  In food processor or blender, blend first two ingredient until smooth. Add
  remaining ingredients, blend well.  Spread over first layer.  Chill one
  hour.
  LAYER #3 2 cups sour cream 1 tomato, chopped 1/2 cup EACH of chopped green
  onions and sliced black olives
  Spread sour cream over layer two.  Sprinkle with remaining ingredients.
  Chill 1 hour. Unmold and serve with taco chips or crackers. Serves 10.
  **NOTE**  In the picture, they show thin slices of avocado around the
  outside edge with a whole black olive at each end. Red pimento is crossed
  in the center, and green onions are sprinkled over top of that.... Served
  on a bed of fancy leaf lettuce with the tips of taco chips underneath the
  mold all the way around...
  Origin:  Palm Dairy Ad (one of our Canadian dairies) Shared by: Sharon
  Stevens
      Title: Mexican Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings: 12
---------------------------FIRST LAYER--------------------------------
      2 cn Jalapeno Bean Dip
---------------------------SECOND LAYER--------------------------------
      2    Large Avocados (Mashed)
      8 oz Taco Sauce
---------------------------THIRD LAYER--------------------------------
      1 pt Sour Cream
      1 pk Taco Mix
-------------------------------TOP------------------------------------
      1 c  Chedder Cheese (Shred)
           Chopped Tomatoes
           Green Chiles
           Black Olives
           Green Onions
  Layer ingredients as listed and serve with corn chips.
      Title: Microwave Cauliflower Pick-Ups
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      1 sm Head cauliflower
    1/3 c  Butter or margarine
    1/4 c  Dry bread crumbs
    1/4 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
      1 ts Tarragon leaves, crushed
      1 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ds Pepper
  Wash cauliflower and pat dry.  Separate into flowerets.  Microwave butter
  in a small dish until melted.  Combine remaining ingredients in plastic
  bag. Dip several pieces of cauliflower at a time in butter. Add to crumbs
  and shake to coat evenly. Repeat with remaining cauliflower. Arrange in
  single layer in 12x8" glass baking dish. Microwave, covered, with a paper
  towel on high for 4-1/2 to 5-1/2 minutes.
      Title: Mini Monte Cristo Sandwiches
 Categories: Appetizers, Pork, Eggs, Cheese
   Servings:  4
      2 tb Butter, Softened
      2 tb Prepared Mustard
      8    Slices White Bread
      4 oz Swiss Or Fontina *
      4 oz Cooked Ham
      3 lg Eggs
    1/2 c  Milk
      1    Env. Golden Onion Soup Mix
    1/4 c  Butter
  *  Use either type of cheese, but not both.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Blend 2 T butter with mustard; even spread on each bread slice. Equally top
  4 bread slices with cheese and ham; top with remaining bread, buttered side
  down.  Cut each sandwich into 4 triangles. Beat eggs, milk, and golden
  onion recipe soup mix until well blended.  Dip sandwiches in egg mixture,
  coating well. In large skillet, melt 1/4 C butter and cook sandwiches over
  medium heat, turning once, until golden. Makes about 16 mini sandwiches.
      Title: Mini Pizza
 Categories: Appetizers, Pizza
   Servings:  1
      1 lb Ground beef
      1 lb Sausage
      1 lb Velveeta cheese
      1 ds Oregano
      2 tb Catsup
      4 dr Worchestershire sauce
  Brown meat, then add the other ingredients.  Put a spoonful on mini French
  bread and freeze for later use.  Bake at 350 degrees for 8 to 10 minutes.
      Title: Mini Sausage Rubens
 Categories: Pork, Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings: 44
    1/2 lb Smoked Sausage
      1    Loaf Party Rye Bread
      4 tb Butter
      1 c  Thousand Island Dressing
     16 oz Saurkraut
     10    Slices Of Swiss Cheese
  Slice sausage into 1/4 inch pieces. Drain the saurkraut. Cut cheese slices
  into 1/2" x 2-1/2" strips. Melt butter in small skillet. Brush rye bread
  with butter on both sides. Place on baking sheet. Toast at 400 degrees for
  5 minutes. Turn. Remove from oven and build rubens ending with criss-
  crossed cheese slices on top. Bake for 5-10 minutes or until the cheese is
  bubbly.
      Title: Mini-Quiches
 Categories: Appetizers, Entertain
   Servings:  6
      8 oz Cottage cheese-small curd
    1/4 c  Sour cream
      4 oz Shredded sharp cheddar
           -cheese
    1/2 c  Bisquick (I used RecipEase)
    1/4 c  Melted butter
      3    Eggs
           Preheat oven to 350 degrees.
           -Mix all ingredients with
           Electric mixer. Grease
           -mini-muffin tins or use
           -Teflon ones.
           Fill 3/4 full.  Bake for
           -15-20 minutes or until
           -brown.
           Hints: Add onion, bacon,
           -mushrooms,etc.  May be
           -frozen.
           Reheat at 300 degrees or
           -microwave for 3 minutes on
           -high.
           Note:  These are great!  Be
           -sure to add cooked bacon
           -and
           Some diced onion.  This
           -recipe only makes about
  1 1/2    Dozen so be sure to at least
           -double! Great
  make-ahead appetizer! - Debbie Carlson
  Posted by:  Kathryn Nicholson (WMPX17A) - Prodigy Reposted by: Debbie
  Carlson - Cooking Echo
      Title: Miniature Puff Appetizers and Fillings
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      1 c  Water
    1/2 c  Butter/margarine
      1 c  Flour
      4    Eggs
           CORN BEEF FILLING
      1 cn (12-oz) corned beef
      2 tb Dried french onion soup mix
           -1 1/4 cup sour cream
           DEVILED HAM FILLING:
      1 cn (2 1/2-oz) deviled ham
      1 pk (3-oz) soften cream cheese
      1 tb Chili sauce
    1/2 ts Prepared mustard
           SPINACH FILLING:
      1    Box (10 1/2-oz) frozen
           -chopped thawed and drained
           -well spinach
  1 1/2 c  Sour cream
    1/2 c  Salad dressing
      1 pk Vegetable dry soup mix
      1 c  Chopped water chestnuts/
           -almonds
  Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Heat water and butter/margarine to a rolling
  boil in saucepan. Stir in the flour all at once and beat over low heat
  until the mixture leaves the side of the pan and forms a ball. Remove from
  heat. Beat in eggs thoroughly, one at a time. Beat mixture until smooth and
  velvety. Using a spoon or pressing with a pastry bag, drop balls the size
  of a thimble on an ungreased baking sheet. Bake about 25-30 minutes, or
  until puffs are golden brown and dry.NOTE: Puffs may be made in the morning
  and covered loosely with paper towel so they soften a little. Slice in half
  and fill with one of the fillings. Mix together all ingredients for any one
  of the fillings.
      Title: Minted Veggie Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings:  8
  1 1/4 c  Plain Non-Fat Yogurt
    3/4 c  Light Sour Cream
      3    Cloves Garlic, Minced
      1    Cucumber *
      1 tb Fresh Mint, Chopped
           Salt And Pepper To Taste
      8 c  Assorted Raw Veggies **
  *  Cucumber should be peeled, seeded and chopped. ** Raw veggies can be
  jicama or yambean, celery, broccoli, carrots, cauliflower, etc; cut into
  sticks or florettes.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Put all ingredients into a food processor or blender and process until well
  combined.  Chill.  Serve with raw vegetables such as carrot or celery
  sticks, radishes, jicama etc.
      Title: Mixed Italian Olives
 Categories: Appetizers, Condiments
   Servings:  6
    1/2 lb Green olives
    1/2 lb Black olives
    1/4 c  Vinegar
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      3    Stalks celery, chopped
      1    Green pepper, chopped
      1    Red pepper, chopped
      1    Garlic clove, crushed
  Mixed Italian Olives
  Freshly ground pepper to taste Oregano to taste
  Crack the olives with a hammer or mallet until the pits show.  Combine the
  olives with the remaining ingredients. Let stand at room temperature for 2
  days. Store in refrigerator in sealed sterilized jars.
      Title: Mock Caviar
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      2 sm Cans chopped ripe olives or
  1 1/2 c  Ripe olives finely chopped
      1 tb Chopped anchovies
      1 ts Salad oil
      2 ts Lemon juice
           Small lettuce leaves
    1/3 c  Dairy sour cream
      1 tb Thinly slice green onions
      2    Finely chopped hard boiled
           -eggs
  Combine olives, anchovies, salad oil, lemon juice, sour cream,onions and
  eggs.
  Cover and chill.  When ready to serve, line chilled serving dish with
  lettuce leaves. Pile olive mixture on lettuce. Top with sour cream and
  sprinkle with
      Title: Mom's Sweet and Sour Meatballs
 Categories: Beef, Appetizers, Ground beef
   Servings:  6
      2 lb Ground Beef
      1    Egg
           Bread Crumbs
  Mix together and form little meat balls, using enough bread crumbs to hold
  Dice 1 onion into a frying pan.  Drop balls in to brown all over.
  In a pot, put 2 cans whole cranberry sauce, 2 cans strained cranberry
  sauce, and 2 cans tomato paste.  Let it all dissolve and cook or simmer on
  low light.  Wash cans out with very little water into pot.
  As meatballs brown, drop into sauce mixture with a slotted spoon.  When all
  meatballs are in sauce, let simmer without lit till it cooks down.   Don't
  let bottom scorch.  Serve over rice or challah.
  From: Sally Austin's Mom
      Title: Mom's Tidbits
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  1
      2 c  Shreddies cereal
      2 c  Cheerios cereal
      2 c  Thin pretzel sticks
      2 c  Salted peanuts or almonds
    1/3 c  Vegetable oil
      2 ts Worcestershire sauce
      1 ts Celery salt
    1/2 ts Garlic salt
    1/2 ts Dill weed (opt. added my Mum
  In roasting pan, combine cereals, pretzels and peanuts. In cup measure, mix
  together oil, Worcestershire sauce, salt/seasoning. Gradually pour over and
  toss lightly into cereal mixture. Bake in 250F oven, stirring every 20 min,
  for about 1 hour or until toasted. Cool and store in airtight container or
  plastic bags.  Keeps in dry place for up to 6 weeks. Makes 8 cups.
  Source:  From Mom, With Love by Kay Spicer Shared by Elizabeth Rodier 5/93
      Title: Moms Dill Dip
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  1
    1/3 c  Sour cream
      1 tb Dry parsley
    1/2 ts Accent
      1 ts Dill weed
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
    2/3 c  Hellmanns mayonnaise
      1 tb Onion flakes
      2 dr Tabasco sauce
      1 ts Seasoned salt
  Mix all ingredients together.  Delicious dip with carrot sticks or celery!
      Title: Monday Night Snack Cake or Howard Cosell Beer
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings: 10
----------------------LISA CRAWLEY  TSPN00B---------------------------
           -A BIG MOUTHFUL
      1 lb Ham; diced; cooked
      1 lb Brick Cheese; diced
      1 lb Bacon; raw, diced
      1 bn Green onions; chop;inc tops
      1 ts Salt
     12    Eggs
  2 1/2 c  Flour
  Dice and chop first four ingred.; set aside.  In lg. mixing bowl, add the
  eggs and salt, beat well. Gradually add flour and stir in rest of chopped
  ingred.  Pour into well-greased and floured 10" tube pan. Bake at 325 for 1
  1/2 hrs.  Do not pour off foamy grease. Let stand 25 min. before removing
  from pan. May be sliced and served cold or cubed and picked for hors
  d'oerves while watching football and drinking beer.
   The answer to any hostess' prayers as nice snack to serve when guests are
  watching instant replays and have no time between games to sit down to eat
  a hot snack.
   NOTE: Half recipe makes sm. Bundt pan size snack. Serves 10 generously and
  20 as hor d'oeurves.
      Title: Monkfish Kebob with Vegetables
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  4
      1 lb Monkfish filets, cut into
           -cubes
           Onions
           Green peppers
           Cherry tomatos
           Zucchini
           Corn on the cob
      8    Kebob sticks
           Marinade:
      1    Clove garlic, minced
      2 c  Oil
      1 c  White wine
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Thyme
    1/4 ts Dill
    1/4 ts Oregano
    1/4 ts Paprika
  Monkfish Kebob with Vegetables
  Marinate monkfish cubes for at least an hour.  Cut vegetables into chunks.
  Place monkfish cubes and vegetables on kebob skewers.  Marinate skewers in
  large casserole or baking sidh, covered and refrigerated for three hours.
  Broil in oven, lightly basting and turning often for approximately 8-10
  minutes. Serves 4, 2 kebobs each.
      Title: Mu Shu Pork
 Categories: Appetizers, Pork
   Servings:  6
    1/3 c  Dry lily flower*
    1/2 c  Tree ears*
      2 tb Peanut oil; or more
    1/2 c  Pork; uncooked, shredded
      2    Eggs; well beaten
      2 c  Chinese cabbage; shredded
    1/3 c  Water chestnuts; chopped
      1 ts Garlic; minced
      2 ts Soy sauce
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Freshly ground pepper
      2    Green onions; cut into 1-in
           Pao bin: (thin pancakes)
      2 c  Flour
    3/4 c  Boiling water (actually 3/4
           Additional flour
      2 tb Sesame oil
  * Dry lily flower and tree ears are available in Oriental markets.
  MU SHU PORK:
  Rinse dry lily flower and tree ears in cold water.  Soak in cold water to
  cover 1 hour, until soft.  Drain and finely chop.
  Heat wok.  When very hot, add peanut oil, turning wok to coat sides. Add
  shredded pork and stir-fry 2 minutes.  Transfer to small bowl.
  Add eggs to wok and stir-fry until cooked.  Add to bowl and mix with pork.
  Heat more oil if necessary.  Quickly add shredded cabbage, chopped lily
  flower and tree ears, water chestnuts and garlic and stir-fry about 2
  minutes.  Thoroughly blend in pork and eggs.  Season with soy, salt and
  pepper.  Add green onions and cook about 1 minute.  Taste for seasoning.
  Place 2 to 3 tablespoons of Mu Shu Pork on each Pao Bin, roll up and serve.
  Note:  We always spread some plum sauce on our pancake before putting on
  filling and rolling.  Delicious.
  PAO BIN (THIN PANCAKES):
  If using food processor, place flour in work bowl.  With motor running, add
  boiling water until dough forms ball.  Transfer to small bowl, cover with
  damp towel and let stand 15 minutes.
  If not using food processor, add boiling water gradually to flour, stirring
  with wooden spoon.  When mixture forms mass (it will be lumpy), transfer to
  floured board and knead until dough forms soft, smooth ball. Place in small
  bowl, cover with damp towel and let stand 15 minutes.
  Cut dough in half.  Place on lightly floured surface and roll each about
  1/4-inch thick.  Cut into 2- to 2-1/2-inch circles.  Knead scraps together,
  roll out and repeat to cut more circles.
  Brush half of the circles with sesame oil.  Place each unoiled circle on 1
  oiled circle.  With rolling pin, roll each pair of circles into larger
  circle about 6 inches in diameter, keeping as round as possible.
  Place ungreased 8-inch skillet over high heat to warm.  Reduce heat to
  moderate.  Place 1 pancake in skillet and cook until it puffs and blisters,
  about 30 seconds.  Turn and cook second side.  Flip onto towel and
  carefully separate into 2 pancakes.  Stack on platter or on foil. When all
  are cooked, wrap in foil and place in warm oven until ready to serve.
  About 6 servings.
  Recipe from Yang Tze, Honolulu, Hawaii. Published in Favorite Restaurant
  Recipes, Bon Appetit, 1982.
      Title: Multilayered Mexican Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings:  1
      1 cn Refried beans; 14 oz
  1 1/4 c  Sour cream
    1/4 ts Cumin; ground
           Hot pepper sauce
    1/3 c  Onion; finely chopped
      1 ts Lime juice
    1/4 ts Hot pepper flakes
    1/3 c  Green onions
    1/2 c  Olives; black sliced
      2    Tomatoes; chopped
      2 c  Cheddar; shredded
    In bowl, blend together beans, 1/4 cup of sour cream, cumin and hot
  pepper sauce. Spread evenly on try 12" in diameter and at least 1 1/2"
  deep.   In bowl, mix remaining sour cream, chopped onion, lime juice and
  red pepper flakes; spread over refried bean layer. Garnish with concentric
  rings of green onions on outside, black olives, tomatoes and cheese in
  centre. Cover and refrigerate till serving time. Tortilla wedges may be
  used as dippers. Source: Canadian Living magazine posted by Anne MacLellan
      Title: Mushroom Almond Pate
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      1 c  Slivered almonds
    1/4 c  Butter
      1 sm Onion, chopped
      1    Clove garlic, minced or
           -pressed
    3/4 lb Mushrooms, sliced
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Thyme
    1/8 ts Pepper
      2 tb Oil
  Mushroom Almond Pate
  Spread almonds in a shallow pan and toast in a 350 degree oven for 8
  minutes or until lightly browned
  Melt butter in a large frying pan over medium high heat.  Add onion,
  garlic, mushrooms, salt, thyme and pepper. Cook, stirring occasionally,
  until onion is soft and most of the pan juices have evaporated.
  In a food processor or blender, whirl almonds to form a paste,  With motor
  tunning, add oil and whirl until creamy.
  Add mushroom mixture and whirl until pate is smooth.
  Chill until set.
  I used walnuts, because I had them on hand, and this turned out fine.  I
  served it alongside thinly sliced toasted rounds of italian bread. Yum.
  Next to that, I had a wedge of brie surrounded by bite-sized hunks of
  carrots (cutting veggies to bite size saves the worry some people have
  about others who dip, bite, then stick something bitten back into the dip.
  . .) and a dip I make for veggies that is yummy, but not for the faint of
  heart.
  Spicy Yogurt Dip
  1 c nonfat yogurt 1 1/2 Tbsp apricot honey (or 1 Tbsp honey plus 1/2 Tbsp
  apricot preserves) 1 tsp curry powder 1/2 tsp cayenne pepper
  Mix all ingredients together and let sit for at least an hour.  The flavor
  intensifies, but you may want to add curry and/or cayenne later. This
  tastes sweet, and you don't realize it's hot until it's too late.
      Title: Mushroom Appetizer
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      2 lb Fresh mushrooms
    1/4 lb Butter
      1 pk Garlic or Italian "Good
           -Seasons" mix
  Saute cleaned mushrooms in butter for 5 minutes. Sprinke with the package
  of "Good Seasons" dressing mix. Simmer covered, do not boil, for 1 1/2 hrs.
  Serve with toothpicks. They go fast.
      Title: Mushroom Cups
 Categories: Appetizers, Eggs, Cheese
   Servings: 32
      1 c  Chopped Onions
      2 c  Chopped Mushrooms
      3 tb Margarine
    1/2 c  Chopped Parsley
      2    Egg Yolks
    3/4 c  Grated Mozzarella Cheese
    1/2 c  Grated Parmasean Cheese
      1 ts Salt
      8    Sliced White Bread
    1/2 c  Melted Butter
  Saute onions and mushrooms in margarine.  Remove from heat.  Add parsley,
  eggs, cheeses and seasoning.  Combine well. Trim crusts from bread and cut
  into 4 equal squares.  Roll pieces flat with a rolling pin. Dip bread in
  melted butter and arrange in miniture muffin tins. Fill each with
  mushroom-cheese mixture.  Bake 350 degrees for 20-25 minutes.
      Title: Mushroom Caps with Pesto
 Categories: Appetizers, Condiments
   Servings: 24
     24    Mushrooms fresh
    1/2 c  Walnuts or Pine Nuts chopped
      2 c  Basil Snipped, fresh
    1/2 c  Parmesan Cheese grated
      4    Garlic cloves peeled
    1/4 c  Olive Oil
      1    Pepper to taste
  Servings: 24
  Preheat oven to 425.  In a food processor bowl or blender container, Place
  the oil, chopped nuts, basil, parmesan cheese, and garlic. Process or blend
  until smooth. Add pepper to taste.
  Remove and discard stems from mushrooms. Clean mushrooms. Spoon a rounded
  teaspoon of pesto into each mushroom cap. Place a walnut half or several
  pine nuts atop each.
  Bake for about 10 minutes or until hot. Drain on a paper towel. Serve
  warm..
      Title: Mushroom Pate #1
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings: 12
    1/3 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Fresh mushrooms (any type)
    1/2 c  Finely chopped onion
      2 tb Dry sherry or vermouth
      3 oz Cream cheese; softened
    1/4 c  Minced fresh parsley
  In a fry pan, melt butter over med. heat, add mushrooms and onions. Cook
  until mushrooms are browned (10-15 min.), stirring often. Mix in sherry.
  Remove from heat,set aside. In a bowl, beat cream cheese and parsley until
  blended, and then add mushroom mixture. Blend. (If you want the pieces of
  mushroom, just stir. I like to Cuisinart in, so it's the same consistency
  as pate.) Refrigerate, and serve with breads or crackers.
  Posted by Debi of "Delectables by Debi Custom Catering" (NRPC58B)
      Title: Mushroom Pate #2
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips, Cheese
   Servings:  6
    1/3 c  Coarsely chopped pecans
    1/4 c  Butter
    3/4 c  Finely chopped onion
      2    Cloves garlic, minced
      1 lb Mushrooms, finely chopped
      2 tb Dry vermouth
    1/4 ts Salt
           Pepper
      2 tb Parmesan cheese
      2 tb Sour cream
      1 tb Finely chopped fresh parsley
  Toast pecans on baking sheet in 350 F oven for about 5 minutes or until
  fragrant; set aside.  In large heavy skillet, melt butter over medium heat.
  Add onion and garlic, cook, stirring occasionally, until softened, about 4
  minutes.  Add mushrooms; cook for 6 minutes over medium high heat, stirring
  often.  Add vermouth, salt and pepper to taste; cook for 2 minutes longer
  or until most of the moisture has evaporated. Remove from heat, stir in
  cheese and set aside to cool. Mix in sour cream and parsley. Taste and
  adjust seasonings if necessary. Transfer to serving bowl. Cover and
  refrigerate until ready to serve. Just before serving, sprinkle with
  pecans.  Makes about 1 1/2 cups.
  Origin: Canadian Living, December 1988. Shared by: Sharon Stevens
      Title: Mushroom Pate #3
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  5
      1 lb Fresh mushrooms
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine
    1/3 c  Minced onion
    1/3 c  Finely chopped celery
      2    Eggs
      3 oz Cream cheese, softened
    3/4 c  Fine dry bread crumbs
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Basil leaves, crushed
    1/4 ts Rosemary leaves, crushed
    1/4 ts Oregano leaves
    1/8 ts Ground black pepper
  Preheat oven to 400.  Rinse, pat dry and finely chop mushrooms (makes about
  5 cups); set aside.  In a large saucepan melt butter.  Add onion and
  celery;  saute until tender, about 5 minutes; set aside.  In a large mixing
  bowl beat eggs and cream cheese until smooth.  Add bread crumbs, salt,
  basil, rosemary, oregano, black pepper and reserved onion and celery
  mixture and mushrooms.  Stir until mixture is well blended and smooth.
  Butter a 7 x 4 x 2 inch loaf pan.  Cover the long side and bottom of pan
  with a strip of waxed paper leaving a 1-1/2 inch overhang. Spoon mushroom
  mixture evenly into pan.  Cover top of pan with foil. Bake until firm,
  about 1-1/2 hours.  Cool in pan until lukewarm. Remove from pan using waxed
  paper overhang as an aid; discard paper. Serve at room temperature with
  crackers as an appetizer garnished with mushroom slices, grated carrot and
  chopped onion, if desired. Yield: 12 to 14 portions.
      Title: Mushroom Strudel
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings: 16
      3 tb Butter
      1 lg Onion, Chopped
    1/3 c  Diced Sweet Red Pepper
      2    Cloves Garlic Minced
      7 c  Sliced Mushrooms
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Thyme
      2 ts Lemon Juice
    1/2 c  Diced Black Forest Ham
    1/2 c  Shredded Mozzarella Cheese
    1/4 c  Minced Fresh Parsley
      2 tb Fine Bread Crumbs
      8    Sheets Phyllo Pastry
    1/3 c  Melted Clarified Butter
      2 ts Dijon Mustard
    1/4 c  Grated Parmesan Cheese
  In large frying pan, melt 3 tablespoons butter over medium heat.  Cook
  onion, red pepper and garlic until softened, about 5 minutes.  Add
  mushrooms; increase heat to medium high and cook, stirring often, until
  mushrooms are tender and all moisture has evaporated.  Season with salt,
  pepper, thyme and lemon juice.  Remove from heat; stir in ham, mozzarella
  cheese, parsley and breadcrumbs.  Taste and adjust seasoning. Let cool.
  Divide mushroom filling in two portions.  Brush 4 sheets of phyllo pastry
  lightly with melted butter; stack neatly one on top of the other. About 1
  inch from one long edge of phyllo pastry, spread half of mustard in a 2
  inch wide strip, leaving a 1 inch border on both sides. Over mustard,
  spread half of the mushroom filling. Dust filling and phyllo pastry with
  half the parmesan cheese. Turn up bottom edge of pastry over mushroom
  filling; turn both side edges in the brush this exposed phyllo pastry on
  bottom and edges with butter. Roll up, jelly roll fashion, loosely but
  compactly.  Place, seam down, on baking sheet.  Repeat with remaining
  phyllo pastry, butter, filling and parmesan cheese.  Brush top with butter;
  with sharp knife cut 8 slits on diagonal, on top of each roll, through top
  2 layers of phyllo pastry.  Bake at 375 degrees F over for about 25 minutes
  or until pastry is golden and crisp.  Let cool for about 5 minutes before
  slicing.
      Title: Mushroom Souffle
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      1 tb Butter
    250 g  Small mushrooms, sliced
      1    Shallot, finely chopped
      1 ts Mixed herbs
      1 ts Chopped parsley
  1 1/2 tb Butter
      3 tb Flour
  1 1/2 c  Milk
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      4    Egg yolks
      3 tb Grated parmesan cheese
      2 tb Cream
    1/4 ts Ground mace
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      4    Egg whites
      1 tb Grated parmesan cheese
  1.   melt butter in pan and saute next 4 ingredients for 2-3 minutes.
  remove from pan. melt butter, add flour, cook 1-2 minutes.
  2.   remove from heat, gradually add milk, salt and pepper.
  3.   return to heat and stir constantly till mixture boils and thickens.
  4.   simmer over low heat 5-7 minutes.
  5.   add next six ingredients and mix well, beat egg whites till stiff,
  fold into sauce mixture.
  6.   pour third of the sauce mixture into 4 souffle dishes, sprinkle over
  half the mushroom mixture. repeat layer of sauce and mushroom and end with
  a sauce layer and sprinkle with cheese.
  7.   bake at 190 degrees c for 30-35 minutes.
  8.   serve immediately.
      Title: Mushroom Side Dish
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings: 12
      1 c  Biscuit mix
      1 c  Mushrooms, fresh, chopped
      1 tb Onion, green, slice
      1 tb Pimiento
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Celery seed
      1    Egg yolk, beaten
    1/4 c  Sour cream
      1    Egg white
           Oil
  In mixing bowl combine biscuit mix, mushrooms, onion, pimiento, salt, and
  celery seed.  Mix together egg yolk and sour cream; stir into dry
  ingredients just till moistened.  Beat egg white to stiff peaks.  Gently
  fold beaten egg white into mushroom mixture.  In heavy saucepan or electric
  deep-fat fryer heat oil to 375.  Drop batter by tablespoon into hot oil.
  Fry about 2 minutes or till golden brown, turning once. Transfer to rack to
  drain.  Serve hot.
      Title: Mushroom Turnovers
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese, Eggs
   Servings:  8
------------------------PASTRY INGREDIENTS-----------------------------
      1 c  Butter (Slightly Softened)
      1 pk Cream Cheese (Softened)
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 c  Flour
      1    Egg
      2 ts Milk
-------------------------MUSHROOM FILLING------------------------------
      2 cn Stems And Pieces (4 oz)
    1/2 c  Onions (Minced)
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts White Pepper
      1 ts Lemon Juice
      2 ts Flour
    1/2 c  Light Cream
  Pastry:  Combine butter, cream cheese and salt and beat well. Add flour and
  blend.  Wrap dough in waxed paper 8x6 rectangle and chill overnight. Remove
  10 minutes before rolling. Roll part of dough at a time to 1/8 inch thick.
  Cut into 2 1/2 inch rounds.  Put 1 teaspoon of filling in each. Moisten
  edges and fold double. Press edges with fork to seal. Mix egg with milk and
  slightly beat.  Brush with and milk and chill 1 hour. Bake at 350F for 25
  minutes or until golden brown. May be frozen. Makes 5 dozen. Mushroom
  filling:  In pan, saute mushrooms and oinions in butter. Sprinkle in salt,
  pepper, lemon juice and flour. Stir and simmer 2 minutes. Gradually add
  cream and stir util smooth and thickened.  Chill.  Add 1 T sherry or dry
  vermouth before chilling, if desired.
      Title: Mushrooms Stuffed with Escargot
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
    1/2 c  Soft butter
      1 ts Minced shallots
      1    Clove garlic (large),
           -crushed
      1 tb Minced parsley
      1 tb Finely minced celery
    1/4 ts Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
           -to taste
     12 lg Mushrooms
     12 lg Canned snails, drained
  Cream 6 tablespoons of the butter with the shallots, garlic, parsley,
  celery, salt and pepper.  Remove the mushroom stems and reserve for another
  purpose. Heat the remaining butter in a skillet.  Add the mushroom caps and
  turn to coat on all sides.  Arrange in the depressions of a snail pan, in
  scallop shells or in a shallow baking-serving dish.  Place a scant teaspoon
  of the herbed butter in each mushroom cap, add a snail and cover it with a
  little more butter. Before serving, bake in a moderate oven (375 degrees)
  about 15 minutes.
  NOTE:  Any leftover herbed butter may be used for baked or broiled fish.
      Title: Mushrooms Montreal
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  4
      4    Scallions or spring onions
    1/2 c  Light or single cream
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Parsley, fresh chopped
      1 lb Mushrooms, peeled, stem
           -trimmed, thinly sliced
           Salt and black pepper
  Chop the scallions finely crosswise.  Whisk together the cream, lemon
  juice, and parsley. Lightly but thoroughly mix in the mushrooms and
  scallions. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Turn into a serving dish
  and serve at once or leave it in a cool place for a few hours so that the
  mushrooms can absorb the flavor of the dressing.
  Serves 4 to 6
  This is an easy-to-prepare dish for the quicksilver Gemini that combines
  the foods of Mercury (parsley and mushrooms) with a creamy coating. Because
  of their association with death, mushrooms are an appropriate food for the
  god whose duty was to conduct the souls of the dead to the under- world.
  Rich in minerals and vitamins, parsley helps relieve nervous conditions
  (often a Gemini complaint) and soothes the stomach. Serve this delicious
  starter with a very chilled white wine and thin slices of whole wheat bread
  and butter.
      Title: Mushrooms Barcelona
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      2 tb Butter/margarine
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      8    Oz(3 cup) fresh mushrooms
    1/2 c  Chopped toasted walnuts
      2 tb Dry sherry
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Grated orange/lemon peel
      2 tb Chopped parsley
  Salt to taste
  Melt butter with oil. Add mushrooms; saute over medium high heat until just
  tender. Add walnuts, sherry, lemon juice and citrus peel; cook 1 minute.
  Sprinkle with parsley; season with salt.
      Title: Mushrooms Stuffed with Whole Clams
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
     24    Mushrooms, 2" in diameter
      3 tb Butter, melted
     24    Littleneck clams, shucked
      5 tb Horseradish
      8 tb Mayonnaise
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
      6    Drops Tabasco
  Remove stems from mushrooms and reserve for another use.  Wipe mushroom
  caps with a towel, dip in butter, and place, rounded side down, on a rack
  on a cookie sheet.  Place 1 clam in each mushroom cap.  Mix together
  remaining ingredients and spoon over clams.  Broil about 6" from heat for
  about 8 minutes or until mushrooms are tender and topping begins to brown.
  From: The Clam Lovers Cook Book Shared By: Pat Stockett
      Title: Mussels Mariniere
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
   Servings:  4
      4 lb Mussels; prefer New Zealand-
           -"Green Lipped" mussels. *
      1 lg Onion
      2    Celery stalks
      1    Garlic clove
    1/2    Bottle of white wine
  Cover bottom of casserole with 1 inch of white wine. Add chopped vegetables
  and bring to the boil. Add mussels and steam until opened, about 4 to 5
  minutes. * Don't forget to "beard" the mussels before steaming. Serves 4.
      Title: Nacho Popcorn
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  2
      3 qt Popcorn
      2 c  Corn chips
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine
  1 1/2 ts Mexican Seasoning
    3/4 c  Cheese, taco, shredded
  Heat oven to 300 F.  Spread popcorn and corn chips in a shallow baking pan
  lined with foil.  Melt butter in small pan.  Stir in Mexican seasoning.
  Pour over popcorn mixture and toss well. Sprinkle with cheese and toss to
  mix.  Bake 5 to 7 minutes until cheese is melted. Serve at once. Makes
  about 3 1/2 quarts.  Just right for two!!!
      Title: Nero Wolfe's Bread Triangles Fried in Anchovy Butter
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  4
     12 sl White bread
    1/2 c  Anchovy butter
  Trim the crusts from the bread and cut the slices into triangles. Butter
  one side of each slice with anchovy butter and set aside. Heat two
  tablespoons of the butter in a large skillet and arrange as many triangles
  in the pan as possible. When they are golden brown on the bottom, turn and
  cook them on the other side. Add more butter as needed. Serve warm. (Serves
  4 or 1 Archie) (If Death Ever Slept) SOURCE: The Nero Wolfe Cookbook by Rex
  Stout The Viking Press, Inc. 625 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10022 ISBN
  670-50599-4 Library of Congress #72-75754 1973 Posted by: Bob Emert
      Title: Never Fail Batter
 Categories: Seafood, Dips
   Servings:  6
      1 c  All-purpose flour
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 c  Cornstarch
      1 c  Water
      2 ts Salt
      1 ts Sugar
      1 ts Oil
  Mix all of the ingredients together and blend until there are no lumps.
  Preheat the oil in your deep fat fryer to the proper temperature for the
  food you are cooking.
  Dry the fish or the vegetables with a paper towel and dip into the batter.
  Place in the hot oil one piece at a time. Try to keep the pieces from
  colliding until the batter has had a chance to set (which it does almost
  instantly).
  Cook until the batter has turned a golden brown, remove to a paper towel to
  drain and serve at once. This is very good to use for zucchini, broccoli,
  peppers, green beans, onion rings and any other firm vegetable.
      Title: New Orleans Crab Canape
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood, Cheese
   Servings: 50
      2 tb Butter
      1    White onion, small, or
           -shallot
      1 tb Flour
    1/2 c  Broth, water, or white wine
    3/4 c  Cooked (or 6-1/2 oz can)
           -crabmeat, drained
           And flaked
           CHEESE TOPPING:
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Flour
      4 oz Parmesan cheese (1 cup),
           -grated
      4 oz Swiss or Gruyere cheese,
           -grated
      1    Loaf white bread
           Butter for sauteing
  FORCEMEAT:
  Melt butter, add onion, and cook over moderate heat until onion is soft.
  Add flour, stir to blend, cook 1 minute; stir in broth, cooking until
  smooth. Add crabmeat, simmer 8 to 10 minutes. Remove from fire; cool.
  Cheese Topping: Melt butter, add flour to make a roux, and cook two or
  three minutes. Add cheses, blend well. Remove from fire, cool, then form
  into small firm, round balls.
  Cut bread into canape-sized pieces; saute in butter. Spread each with the
  crab mixture; then place a cheese ball over the crab. Just before serving,
  place in hot oven for 5 minutes until cheese is melted and bubbly.
  Makes about 50.
  From: A Salute to Cheese, by Betty Wason, Hawthorn Books, Inc., 1966.
  Shared by: June Hoffman, 7/93
      Title: No-Crust Spinach Pie
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  4
      1 c  Mushrooms
      1 c  Red peppers
      1 lb Ricotta cheese
      1 pk Spinace, frozen, drained
      4    Eggs
      2 tb Oil
           Salt and pepper
  Saute the mushrooms and red peppers.  Cool.  Blend all ingredients
  together.  Pour into a buttered 13x9 pan.  Bake at 350F for 40 minutes.
  Happy Charring
  ~-- EZPoint V2.2 * Origin: "LaRK's" Place (1:343/26.3)
  ===========================================================================
  BBS: High Country East Date: 08-01-93 (15:43) Number: 1944 From: LAWRENCE
  KELLIE              Refer#: NONE To: ALLL Recvd: NO Subj: recipe Conf: (52)
  Cooking
      Title: Northfork Crab Meat
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  1
      1 lb Crab Meat
      4 tb Butter
      1 tb Tarrigan Wine Vinegar
           Cocktail Sauce
           Lemon Wedges
  Heat Butter over low heat. Saute crab meat, stirring for 2 minutes.
  Sprinkle with vinegar. Top with parsley and a little garlic powder. Serve
  with cocktail sauce and lemon wedges. Cam be made with shrimps.
  Source: "The Yankee Kitchen" 03-29-93 (#4) [Gail]
      Title: Norwegian Sardine Pate
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  8
      8 oz Cream cheese
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 tb Lemon or lime juice
    1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
      2 cn 3 1/4 oz boneless skinless
           Sardines, drained
      1 tb Chopped parsley
    1/8 ts Hot pepper sauce
           Capers
           Additional chopped parsley
  Cream together first four ingredients.  Mash sardines and beat into cheese
  mixture with parsley and hot sauce.  Form into mound or desired shape.
  Garnish with capers and parsley.  Serve with toast fingers, bread or
  crackers.  Makes 2 cups.
      Title: Not Miss Lily's Olives Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese, Dips
   Servings:  4
      1 c  Cream Cheese, Softened
      1 c  Sour Cream
    1/4 c  Black Olives, Chopped
    1/2 ts Garlic Powder
      1 ts Dried Parsley, Crushed
      2 tb Worcestershire Sauce
      1 tb Paprika
      1 tb Fresh Parsley, Chopped
  Beat the cream cheese to a smooth consistency.  Blend in the sour cream and
  then the remaining ingredients.  Blend well.  Cover and chill. Makes about
  2-1/4 cups of dip. SUGGESTED DIPPERS:  Scallions, Jalapeno Peppers, Celery
  Root, Potato Chips, Duck Sausage.
      Title: Nuts About Cheese
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings:  6
      2 c  Pecans or walnuts (about 1/2
           -lb)
      4 oz Cream cheese
      4 oz Stilton or Danish blue
           -cheese
      1 tb Mayonnaise
    1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
  Any flavored cream cheese (pepper or orange) can be used instead of
  themixture of Stilton, cream cheese, mayo and worcesershire sauce.  To add
  variety, serve a couple of flavor combinations, such as Stilton and
  garlic-herb cheese.
  Toast nuts on baking sheet in 350 F oven for 8-10 minutes or until
  fragrant. Let cool completely.  In food processor or by hand, combine cream
  cheese, stilton, mayonnaise and worcestershire sauce until blended.
  Refrigerate until firm.  Sandwich about 1/2 tsp cheese mixture between 2
  nut halves. Refrigerate until serving.
  Origin:  Canadian Living magazine, Dec/88 Shared by: Sharon Stevens.
      Title: Nuts and Bolts
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  5
    1/2 c  Margarine
    1/4 c  Salad oil
    1/4 c  Bacon fat
    1/2 c  Worcestershire sauce
      2 ts Garlic salt
      4 ts Celery salt
      4 c  Unblanched almonds (or mixed
           -nuts)
      4 c  Wheat chex or other small
           -shredded wheat squares
      4 c  Rice chex
      2 c  Cheerios
      2 c  Thin pretzels
      1    8-10 oz package cheese
           -flings or similar cracker
           -snack
  Melt the margarine, oil, and bacon fat.  Stir in worcestershire sauce. Add
  salts.  Remove from heat and let stand a few minutes.  In large roasting
  pan combine nuts, cereals, pretzels, and cheese snack crackers. Pour sauce
  over this and toss to blend. Bake uncovered in slow oven (200F) for 2
  hours, stirring every 30 minutes. Makes 5 quarts.
  Origin: A Taste of Oregon Shared by: Sharon Stevens.
      Title: Nutty Cheese Brulee
 Categories: Appetizers, Microwave, Cheese
   Servings:  2
      4 oz Brie Cheese, Rind Removed Or
  5 1/2 oz Camembert Cheese Remove Rind
      1 tb Ice Cream Topping *
      2 tb Broken Pecans Or Walnuts
-----------------------------DIPPERS----------------------------------
           Flat Bread
           Unsalted Crackers
           Apple Or Pear Slices
  * Ice cream toppings can be one of the following:  Strawberry, Chocolate
  etc.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Place the Brie or Camembert cheese in the center of a nonmetal plate or
  small shallow baking dish.  Spoon the ice cream topping over the cheese.
  Sprinkle with pecans or walnuts.  Micro-cook, uncovered, on 100% power
  about 30 seconds or until the cheese begins to melt and lose its shape.
  Serve immediately with flat spread or unsalted crackers and apple or pear
  slices.
      Title: Nutty Cheese Ball
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese, Syd's book
   Servings:  1
    1/4 lb Bleu Cheese
    1/4 lb Grated Cheddar
      3 oz Cream Cheese
      1 sm Grated Onion
      1 ts Worcestershire Sauce
    1/8 lb Chopped Walnuts Or Pecans
    1/8 lb Chopped Walnuts Or Pecans
  Blend together well the cheese, onion and Worcestershire sauce.  Add 1/8
  pound of chopped nuts and blend well again.  Form into a large ball and
  refrigerate overnight.  Bring to room temperature one hour before serving.
  Roll in 1/8 pound of chopped nuts.  Serve with crackers or corn chips.
  From: Syd's Cookbook.
      Title: Obatzda (Cheese Spread)
 Categories: Cheese, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      9 oz (500 gram) ripe Camembert
           -cheese
  4 1/2 oz (250 gram) cream cheese
  2 1/2 tb (80 gram) butter
      2 sm Onions, finely chopped
  OBATZDA (Cheese Spread)
  beer salt, pepper, caraway
  With A fork, crush and blend cheese with butter.  Add chopped onions and
  salt, pepper, caraway.  Gradually blend in just enough beer to create a
  spreadable mixture.  Refrigerate until ready to serve.
      Title: Old English Sherry Cheese Puffs
 Categories: Entertain, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
    1/2 c  Water
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Margarine or Butter
      1 tb Sherry
    1/2 c  All-Purpose Flour
      2    Eggs
           5 oz. Jar Old English*
-----------------------------FILLING----------------------------------
      1 pk 3-oz. Cream Cheese, Softened
      1 tb Chopped Stuffed Green Olives
      2 ts Sherry
  *INGREDIENT LIST SHOULD READ: 1 5-oz. Jar Old English (sharp) pasteurized
  process cheese spread, softened.
  Heat oven to 400 degrees F. Grease cookie sheet. In med. saucepan, heat
  water, salt and margarine to boiling. Add flour and sherry, stirring
  constantly, until mixture forms ball and leaves sides of pan. Remove from
  heat; blend in 1/4 cup cheese spread. Add eggs, one at a time, beating well
  after each addition. Mixture will be smooth and glossy. Drop dough by
  teaspoonfuls onto prepared cookie sheet. Bake at 400 degrees F for 15-20
  mins. until puffed and golden brown. Remove from cookie sheets. Cool
  slightly; make small slit in side of puffs to release steam and prevent
  sogginess. Cool completely.
  In small bowl, combine remaining cheese spread, olives and sherry; blend
  until smooth and fluffy. Slit puffs; remove any soft filaments of dough.
  Fill with scant teaspoonfuls of cheese mixture. Makes 18 appetizer puffs.
  A wonderful holiday appetizer including a rich cheese puff pastry.
  I have never tried this recipe. It comes from my "Pillsbury Festive Holiday
  Recipes" cookbook, Classic #13. Marilyn Sultar
      Title: Olive Cheese Balls
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  1
      1 pk Cheddar cheese (8 oz.)
  1 1/4 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Margarine, melted
     36    Pimento stuffed olives
  Mix cheese and flour.  Add margarine and mix thoroughly.  If dough seems
  dry, work with your hands.  Mold 1 teaspoon of dough around each olive,
  shape into ball.  Place 2 inches apart on greased baking sheet.  Cover,
  chill for 1 hour.  Heat oven to 400 degrees.  Bake 15 to 20 minutes.  Can
  make ahead and refrigerate or freeze.
      Title: Olive Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese, Dips
   Servings:  4
      1 c  Cream Cheese, Softened
      1 c  Sour Cream
    1/4 c  Black Olives, Chopped
    1/2 ts Garlic Powder
      1 ts Dried Parsley, Crushed
      2 tb Worcestershire Sauce
      1 tb Paprika
      1 tb Fresh Parsley, Chopped
  Beat the cream cheese to a smooth consistency.  Blend in the sour cream and
  then the remaining ingredients.  Blend well.  Cover and chill. Makes about
  2 1/4 cups of dip. SUGGESTED DIPPERS: Scallions, Jalapeno Peppers, Celery
  Root, Potato Chips, Duck Sausage
      Title: Olive Tapenade
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips, Seafood
   Servings:  4
      2    Anchovy Fillets
      1 c  Black Olives, Chopped
      4 ts Worcestershire Sauce
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
    1/4 c  Fresh Parsley, Chopped, OR
      4 ts Dried Parsley, Crushed
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Garlic, Minced
      3 tb Fresh Basil, Chopped, OR
      1 tb Dried Basil, Crushed
  Chop and mash the anchovies on a cutting board.  Put them into a bowl and
  mix with the olives and worcestershire sauce.  Blend in the mayonnaise and
  add all the rest of the ingredients, blending well.  Cover and chill. Makes
  about 2 cups of dip. SUGGESTED DIPPERS: Scallions, French Bread, Seafood
      Title: Onion "Caviar"
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  4
      1 c  Chopped sweet onions
      1 c  Black-eyed peas, cooked
    1/4 c  Pimento, diced
      1 c  Green bell pepper, diced
    1/2 c  Green onion, chopped
      2 tb Fresh garlic, chopped
    1/4 c  Italian dressing
           Salt & pepper
  Combine all the ingredients & let marinate overnight.  Serve either as an
  appetizer or as a side dish.
  Hamilton Spectator, May 26, 1993
      Title: Onion Cake
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      3    Strips bacon, diced
      4 md Onions, finely chopped
      3 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Sour cream
      1 tb Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      3    Eggs, beaten
      8 oz Tube refrigerated crescent
           -rolls
  In a skillet, cook bacon until crisp.  Drain bacon and discard pan
  drippings.  In the same skillet, cook onions in butter until tender. Cool.
  In a mixing bowl, combine sour cream, flour and salt; add eggs. Stir in the
  bacon and onions; set aside. Separate crescent roll dough into four
  rectangles.  Pat dough into the bottom and 1" up sides of a greased 9"
  square baking pan, stretching as needed.  Pinch edges together to seal.
  Pour onion mixture over dough. Bake at 375 degrees for 30 minutes or until
  the topping is set and crust is golden. Cool slightly before cutting into
  small squares.  Serve warm.
  Yields:  16 servings From: "Reminisce" Magazine Posted by: Debbie Carlson -
  Cooking Echo
      Title: Onion Patties
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
    3/4 c  Flour
      1 tb Baking powder
    3/4 c  Milk
      1 tb Pepper sauce
      1 c  Finely chopped onions
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Cornmeal
      1 ts Pepper
      1 tb Sugar
      1 ts Parsley
  Mix all ingredients. Drop by teaspoon into hot oil. Fry each side about two
  minutes.  Drain on paper towel
  Source: Rock Springs Sweet Onion Festival Cook Book 1992
      Title: Onion Rings
 Categories: Appetizers, Barbecue
   Servings:  8
      8 lg Onions
  1 1/2 c  All-Purpose Flour
      4 tb Corn Meal
      4 tb Onion Powder
      2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Milk
      1 lg Egg
    1/2 c  Water
      1 tb Orange Food Color
  Combine flour, corn meal, onion powder, salt, milk, egg and water in a
  large mixing bowl and stir well and there are no lumps.  Add food color if
  you prefer a nicer color to the finished batter. Slice the onions thick
  (about 1/2").  Use only the outer rings for best appearance and dip into
  batter.  Drop coated rings into deep fryer and cook until golden brown.
  Drain on paper towels and serve.  Great with Barbecue!
      Title: Onion Sandwich
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
     24 sl Firm-textured egg bread,thin
           - such as challah or brioche
      6 tb Mayonnaise
     12 sl Onion, wafer thin
           Salt; to taste
           Freshly ground black pepper
           - to taste
      1 c  Minced parsley
  USING A 1 3/4-INCH COOKIE CUTTER, cut out rounds for the centers of the
  bread slices. Spread mayonnaise on each of the bread rounds with a small
  spatula. The diameter of the onion slices should approximate that of the
  bread rounds. Sprinkle each with salt and pepper. Place 1 onion slice on
  each half of the rounds. Cover each one with another bread round,
  mayonnaise side down, on top of the onion. Using the spatula, spread the
  outside rim of the sandwich with mayonnaise, coating fairly liberally. Roll
  the rim of each sandwich in parsley to coat.
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
      Title: Onion Tart
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  8
------------------------------PASTRY-----------------------------------
    200 g  Plain flour
    130 g  Unsalted butter, softened
      3 tb Water
      1    Egg
      1 ds Salt
-----------------------------FILLING----------------------------------
    400 g  Onions
     30 g  Bacon, cut into thin strips
     50 g  Unsalted butter
  3 1/2 dl Cream
  3 1/2 dl Milk
      4    Eggs
      1 ds Gratted nutmeg
      1 tb Chopped parsley
           Salt and pepper
  Pastry
  Make the flour into a 'well' on the pastry board, beat the egg and add it,
  with the butter, salt and a little of the water, to the centre of the well,
  then work the ingredients into the flour with your fingertips,
  incorporating more water little by little; whether you have to use all the
  water or not depends on the quality of the flour. Press all the dough
  together into a ball then, finally, work it thoroughly with the heel of
  your hand, gathering it up with pastry scraper as you do so until it is
  soft and pliable. Leave it in the refrigerator to firm up again before you
  roll it out.
  Filling
  Peel the onions. Cut them into fine rings and weigh out 300 g.
  Cook the bacon strips (which need to be VERY finely cut) in the butter. Let
  them take on a golden colour, then add the sliced onions and leave them to
  cook gently until they are tender.
  In a bowl beat together the cream, milk and eggs, adding salt, pepper and
  nutmeg to taste.
  When the onions are cooked, add them to the mixture in the bowl and add the
  chopped parsley.
  Preparation
  Roll out the dough 2mm thick and use it to line a buttered tart tin 26 cm
  in diameter and at least 3cm deep. Cut a disc of aluminium foil of the same
  diameter as the tin and place it on the pastry. Weight it down with a
  handful of beans or crusts.
  Pre-heat the oven to 150 oC (300 oF) and cook the pastry 'blind' for half
  an hour. Watch the coulouring of the edge and as soon as it starts to turn
  golden remove the aluminium foil and beans or crusts. Cook the pastry shell
  until the base is baked but not coloured.
  Fill the shell with the onion mixture. Put the tart back into the oven.
  Check that the temperature is still 150 oC and keep the oven at or just
  below this temperature for about 1 hour. Towards the end you could reduce
  the heat a little, as the tart needs TO COOK VERY SLOWLY. The tart is ready
  if, when you shake it, the filling appears to be quite firm with no hint of
  a whole in the centre.
  Serve warm, in small slices !
  (From: Fredy Girardet, Cuisine spontanee)
      Title: Onion-Cheese Dip Mix
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  1
      1 tb Instant Minced Onion
    1/2 ts Instant Beef Bouillon
      1 tb Grated Parmesan Cheese
    1/4 ts Garlic Salt
  Combine all ingredients in a small bowl; blend well.  Spoon mixture onto a
  6-inch square of aluminum foil and fold to make airtight.  Label as
  Onion-Cheese Dip Mix.  Store in a cool dry place and use within 3 to 4
  months.
  Makes 1 package (about 3 T) of mix.  This recipe may be increased to make
  more packages of mix.
  Onion-Cheese Dip:  Combine 1 cup sour cream with 1 package of mix.  Chill
  at least 1 hour before serving.
  Makes about 1 cup of dip.
  VARIATION:  Substitute 1 cup cottage cheese or 1 (8 oz) package of softened
  cream cheese for sour cream.
      Title: Open Face Mushroom Brie Sandwiches
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  4
      2 tb Olive oil
  1 1/2 c  Trimmed assorted mushrooms
           - such as shiitake, oyster,
           - chanterelle, morel
           - and cultivated
      1 ts Minced garlic
    1/2 c  Finely diced onion
      1 tb Red wine vinegar
      1 tb Water
           Salt and pepper; as desired
      2 tb Finely chopped parsley
      4 sl Country bread
      4 sl Brie cheese
  HEAT THE OIL IN A SKILLET and add the mushrooms, garlic, onion, vinegar,
  water, salt and pepper. Cover and cook 3 minutes. Remove the cover and cook
  until mushrooms are tender, another 5 minutes. Remove from the heat,
  transfer the mushrooms to a bowl and add the parsley. Toast or grill the
  bread. Preheat a broiler. Place the bread on a baking sheet and top with
  mushrooms. Lay a piece of cheese on top and place under the broiler until
  melted. Serve immediately.
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
      Title: Open Sesame Ginger Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings:  4
      3 ts Dijon Mustard
    1/2 ts Ginger, Ground
      2 ts Soy Sauce
      1 ts Sesame Oil
    1/2 ts Sesame Seeds
    1/4 ts Black Pepper
      3 ts Green Onion, Chopped
      1 c  Sour Cream
  Mix the mustard, ginger and soy sauce, blending well.  Blend in the sesame
  oil, sesame seeds, pepper and green onion, blending thoroughly. Blend in
  the sour cream.  Cover and chill. Makes about 1 1/4 cups of dip. SUGGESTED
  DIPPERS:  Chicken Strips Or Cubes, Fried Wonton, Noodle Chips, Bok Choy.
      Title: Orange Appetizers
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      6    Oranges, peeled and sliced
           -crosswise
      1    Red Onion, Thinly Sliced
           Olive oil
           Chopped Cilantro
           Juice Of 1 Lime
           Cayenne Pepper
           Fresh Parsley
  For each appetizer you will need one whole orange.  Once it is sliced,place
  one slice on plate, then slice of red onion, sprinkle of parsley,another
  slice of orange, onion, parsley, until you have rebuilt the orange. Top
  with a drizzle of lime juice, sprinkled cilantro, and a drizzle of olive
  oil over the top.
  Origin: The Urban Peasant TV Cooking Show Shared by: Sharon Stevens
      Title: Orange Ginger Dip #1
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese, Dips
   Servings:  4
  1 1/2 ts Ginger, Dried
    1/2 c  Cream Cheese, Softened
    1/2 c  Sour Cream
    1/4 c  Orange Juice
    1/2 ts Orange Zest
  Beat the ginger and cream cheese to a smooth consistency, then add the sour
  cream, blending well.  Add the orange juice and orange zest, blending well.
  Cover and chill. Makes about 1-1/4 cups of dip. SUGGESTED DIPPERS:
  Apricots, Chicken, Pound Cake Cubes
      Title: Orange Ginger Dip #2
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings:  6
      1 c  Light/cholesterol free
           -reduced calorie mayonnaise
    1/4 c  Orange juice
      2 tb Honey
    1/2 ts Grated orange peel
    1/4 ts Ground ginger
  Combine all ingredients. Cover; chill. Serve with fresh fruit.
      Title: Oriental Stuffed Mushrooms
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings: 24
      2 tb Fresh lemon juice
     24 lg Mushroom stemmed *
      3 sl Lean bacon
    1/4 c  Minced onion
      4 ts Minced garlic
      2 tb Soy sauce
      1 tb Sesame seeds, toasted
           -lightly
    1/2 c  Fine fresh bread crumbs
      1 tb Bread crumbs for garnish
           Pepper to taste
      1    Scallion, sliced thin, for
           -garnish
  * Chop stems and leave caps whole In a large saucepan, combine 6 cups water
  with the lemon juice, add the mushroom caps, and bring the liquid to a
  boil.  Simmer the mushroom caps for 6 mintues, transfer tham to paper
  towels, and let them drain. (Blanching the mushroom caps will prevent them
  from wrinkling while they are baking.) In a skillet, cook the bacon over
  moderate heat until it is crisp, transfer it to paper towels, and let it
  drain.  Pour off all but 1-1/2 tbsp of the fat from the skillet, in the
  remaining fat cook the onion, the garlic, and the mushroom stems over
  moderately low heat,stirring, until the vegetables are softened, and add
  the soy sauce, the sesame seeds, 1/2 cup of the bread crumbs, the bacon,
  crumbled, and pepper to taste. Cook the mixture, stirring, for 1 minutes,
  or until it is slightly dry, divide it among the mushroom caps, mounding
  it, and transfer the stuffed mushrooms to a jelly-roll pan. The mushrooms
  may be prepared up to this point 1 day in advance and kept covered tightly
  with plastic wrap and chilled.  Sprinkle the remaining 1 tbsp bread crumbs
  over the mushrooms and bake the mushrooms in the middle of a preheated 325
  F oven for 7 minutes, or until the filling is heated through. To make the
  filling crisper, the cooked mushrooms may be put under a preheated broiler
  about 4 inches from the heat for 1 minute. Garnish the mushrooms with the
  scallion.  Makes 24 stuffed mushrooms.
  Origin:  Cookbook Digest  Nov/Dec 1991 Shared by: Sharon Stevens.
      Title: Original Chex Party Mix
 Categories: Appetizers, Microwave
   Servings:  6
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine
  1 1/4 ts Seasoned salt
  4 1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
      8 c  Chex cereals (mixed)
      1 c  Mixed nuts
      1 c  Pretzels
  1>. In a small microwave-safe bowl butter on HIGH. Add seasoned salt and
  Worcestershire sauce; mix well. 2>. Pour cereals, nuts and pretzels into 2
  gal. resealable plastic bag. Pour butter mixture over cereal mixture. Seal
  top of bag and shake until pieces are evenly coated. 3>. Pour contents of
  bag into large microwave-safe bowl. Microwave on HIGH 5 to 6 minutes,
  stirring every 2 minutes. Spread on absorbent paper to cool. Store in
  airtight container.
      Title: Oven Cheese and Spinach Fondue
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  4
     10 sl White bread
      6    Egg
      3 c  Milk
      1 ts Dry mustard
      1 ts Salt
      2 c  American cheese;shredded 8oz
      3 tb Onion
      1 pk Spinach; frozen, drained
  Heat ove to 325F.  Remove crusts from bread and cut into cubes.  Beat eggs,
  milk and seasons.  Stir in bread cubes, cheese, onion and spinach. Pour
  into lightly greased baking dish.  Bake uncovered for 1 hour or until
  center is set.  Serve immediately. Happy Charring
  ~-- EZPoint V2.2 * Origin: "LaRK's" Place (1:343/26.3)
  ===========================================================================
  BBS: High Country East Date: 08-01-93 (15:44) Number: 1946 From: LAWRENCE
  KELLIE              Refer#: NONE To: ALL Recvd: NO Subj: reicpe Conf: (52)
  Cooking
      Title: Overstuffed Mushrooms
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      2 lb Medium-sized fresh mushrooms
      1 pk (8 oz.) cream cheese,
           -softened
      1 cn (4-1/2 oz.) deviled ham
      2 tb Finely chopped stuffed
           -olives
      1 tb Prepared mustard
      2 ts Onion powder
    1/4 ts Ground turmeric
      1 pn Ground black pepper
  Overstuffed Mushrooms From: The American Mushroom Institute Shared By: Pat
  Stockett
  Diced pimiento
  Rinse, pat dry and remove stems from mushrooms (use in soups, stews, etc.);
  set caps aside.  In a medium bowl mix cream cheese, ham, olives, mustard,
  onion powder, turmeric and black pepper.  Spoon or pipe into mushroom caps.
  Garnish with pimento. Yield: about 50 stuffed mushrooms (about 1-1/2 cups
  filling)
      Title: Oyster Croquettes
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
   Servings: 24
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/4 c  All purpose flour
      1 c  Milk
           Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
      3 tb Butter
      4    Minced shallot
      1 lb Minced mushroom
     24    Shucked & patted dry oyster
           (for deep frying)
           -vegetable oil
      3    Egg
           All purpose flour
      4 c  Fresh bread crumbs
           Watercress
           Wedges lemon
  (Makes 24.) Melt 1/4 cup butter in heavy medium saucepan over low heat.
  Whisk in 1/4 cup flour and stir 3 minutes. Whisk in milk and bring to boil.
  Reduce heat and simmer 5 minutes, stirring occasionally. Season with salt
  and pepper.
  Melt 3 tablespoons butter in heavy medium skillet over medium-low heat. Add
  shallots and cook until softened, stirring occasionally, about 5 minutes.
  Add mushrooms, increase heat and cook until all liquid evaporates, stirring
  occasionally, about 10 minutes. Season with salt and pepper. Stir mushroom
  mixture into sauce. Cool.
  Heat skillet over medium-high heat. Add oysters and toss 2 minutes. Cool.
  Heat oil to 425 deg. in deep fryer or heavy large saucepan. Beat eggs to
  blend with 1 tablespoon vegetable oil. Pack sauce around each oyster,
  forming cigar shape. Dredge in flour, shaking off excess. Dip in egg
  mixture. Roll in bread crumbs. Fry in batches until golden brown, about 4
  minutes. Remove using slotted spoon and drain on paper towels. Arrange
  croquettes on platter. Garnish with watercress and lemon.
      Title: Oysters Bingo (Fried Oysters)
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      1 oz Butter or Vegetable oil
      6    Fresh Oysters
      1 c  Flour ( seasoned with salt
           -and pepper)
      1 tb Oyster Juice
      1 tb White Wine
      1 tb Shallots
      1 tb Real Lemon Juice
  Oysters Bingo from the Ships Cabin Seafood Restaurant in Norfolk, Virginia
  Lightly  bread 6 oysters and saute on one side until  golden  brown, then
  saute the other side until same color appears.  Remove  oysters from pan.
  Turn  off heat and add the wine,  oyster  juice,  lemon juice, and shallots
  to the butter that the oysters were sauted  in. This will make a creamy
  sauce to pour over the oysters.
      Title: Oysters in Champagne Sauce
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  4
     24    Raw oysters - in shell
-------------------------CHAMPAGNE SAUCE------------------------------
  1 1/2 tb Unsalted butter
  1 1/2 tb Flour
    1/2 c  Oyster juice - from above
    1/2 c  Champagne - or other dry
           -sparkling wine
    1/4 ts Celery seed - ground
           Freshly ground white pepper
      2 c  Rock salt - or coarse salt
           -for the broiler pan
  * 2 cups rock salt - or coarse salt for the broiler pan
  *DIRECTIONS*
  PREPARATION: Open the oysters as instructed in previous recipe ("Opening
  Oysters in the Microwave").  Measure 1/2 cup of the strained cooking liquid
  and reserve.
  CHAMPAGNE SAUCE: Melt the butter in a 1-quart glass or ceramic measure or
  bowl, uncovered, on high for 2 minutes. Stir in 1/2 cup reserved oyster
  juices and Champagne and cook, uncovered, on high, stirring twice during
  cooking, for 4 minutes or until thickened. Recipe can be made to this point
  a few hours ahead.
  COOKING AND SERVING: Heat the broiler with rack set at its highest level.
  Stir celery seed and white pepper to taste into the sauce. Spread 2 cups of
  coarse or rock salt in the bottom of a broiler pan to steady oysters.
  Nestle reserved shells into salt.  Put each oyster in a shell and
  thoroughly coat the tops with sauce.  Put under preheated broiler until
  just golden, about 2 minutes.
  Makes 4 first-course servings.
  NOTE:  This is a simple and elegant classic.  You can prepare the oysters
  and sauce ahead in the microwave, and then broil for a minute or two just
  before serving.  The obvious wine to serve is Champagne. If you choose
  another dry sparkling wine to drink instead, use the same one in the sauce.
  Recipe from Barbara Kafka, Cook's Magazine, September/October, 1987.
      Title: Oysters Poached in White Wine
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
   Servings:  4
     16    Freshly shucked oysters
      6 oz Dry white wine
      2 oz Olive oil
      2 oz Fresh lemon juice
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts White pepper
    1/4 ts Dried thyme
    1/4 ts Dried chervil
      1 ts Chopped fresh parsley
      1    Garlic clove, crushed
  Place all ingredients in nonreactive pot.  Bring to a boil over moderate
  heat.  Remove from heat and allow to cool to room temperature. Remove
  crushed garlic clove before serving.
  Serves four as a first course, two as a light entree.
  This elegant first course looks very attractive served in clear glass bowls
  or clear stemmed dessert dishes.
  Be sure to serve fresh heated French bread with sweet butter to sop up
  these wonderful juices.
      Title: Oysters Rockefeller - Gourmet Magazine
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
   Servings: 36
      1    Boston Lettuce, Wash, Dried
    1/2 lb Fresh Spinach, Wash, Dried
      1 c  Scallion, Minced
  2 3/4 c  Dry Bread Crumbs, Fine
    1/2 c  Fresh Parsley, Minced
    1/4 c  Celery, Minced
      3    Garlic Cloves, Minced
      1 c  Unsalted Butter
      2 tb Pernod
      1 tb Anchovy Paste
    1/8 ts Cayenne Pepper
     12    Slices Lean Bacon
     36 lg Oysters In Shells
           Coarse Salt For Platters
           Lemon Wedges
  Shuck oysters, reserving liquor and bottom shells.  Scrub and dry shells.
  In a bowl, combine lettuce, spinach, scallion, 1/2 cup bread crumbs,
  parsley, celery, and garlic.  In a skillet, met butter over moderate heat
  and cook the spinach mixture, stirring for 1-2 minutes, or until greens are
  wilted.  Stir in the Pernod, anchovy paste, cayenne, and salt and pepper to
  taste.  Chill the mixture, covered, for 1 hour. In another skillet, cook
  bacon over moderate heat until crisp. Transfer to paper towels to drain,
  and then crumble it. Arrange one oyster in each of the reserved shells and
  moisten each with some of the reserved liquor. Spread half the spinach
  mixture by heaping tablespoons onto the oysters. Sprinkle bacon over each
  oyster.  Top the bacon with remaining spinach mixture and sprinkle each
  with 1 Tbsp of remaining bread crumbs. Arrange oysters on an oven proof
  platters filled with coarse salt. Bake in the middle of a preheated 450øF
  oven for 18 minutes or until bread crumbs are well browned. Garnish with
  parsley sprigs and lemon wedges and serve. a 1976 Gourmet Mag. favorite
      Title: Oysters Rockefeller
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
     36    Oysters
      1 lb Spinach, fresh
      1 c  Scallions, finely chopped
    1/2 c  Celery, finely chopped
    1/2 c  Parsley, finely chopped
      1    Clove garlic, finely minced
      1 cn Anchovies, (2 ounce)
      8 tb Butter
      1 tb Flour
    1/2 c  Heavy cream
           Tobasco
      1 tb To 2 tb Pernod (or other
           -anise flavored liqeur)
           1.  Preheat oven to dg450.
      2    Open the oysters, leaving
           -them on the half shell and
  Oysters Rockefeller
  serves 6 (or more)
  reserving the oyster liquor.
  3.   Pick over spinach and remove any tough stems and blemished leaves.
  Rince  well  and put in a saucepan.  Cover  and  cook, stirring, until
  spinach is wilted. Cook briefly and drain well. Squeeze to remove excess
  moisture.  Blend or put through a food mill. There should be about 2 cups.
  4. Put the scallions, celery, and parsley into the container of an electric
  blender and blend.  There should be about  1  cup finely blended.
  5.  Chop the anchovies and garlic together finely.
  6.   Heat  4  tablespoons of butter in a skillet  and  add  the scallion
  and celery mixture.  Stir about 1 minute and add  the anchovie mixture.
  Cook,  stirring, about 1 minute, and add the spinach. Stir to blend.
  7.   Heat  remaining 4 tablespoons of butter in a saucepan  and add the
  flour.  Blend,  stirring with a wire whisk,  and  add oyster liquor,
  stirring vigorously with the whisk. Stir in the cream. Season with Tobasco
  to taste.  DO NOT ADD SALT. Add the spinach mixture and Pernod. Let cool.
  8.   Spoon equal portions of the mixture on top of the  oysters and smooth
  over the tops.  Sprinkle with Parmesan cheese.  Bake about 25 minutes or
  until piping hot.
  Note:  The same spinach topping is equally as good, (some think better),
  with clams on the half-shell. (Clams Rockefeller)
  **
      Title: Oysters Rockefeller  (Gourmet Mag.)
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
   Servings: 36
      1    Boston lettuce, washed, drie
           -, & chopped fine
    1/2 lb Fresh spinach, washed, dried
           - & chopped fine
      1 c  Scallion, minced
  2 3/4 c  Dry bread crumbs, fine
    1/2 c  Fresh parsley, minced
    1/4 c  Celery, minced
      3    Garlic cloves, minced
      1 c  Unsalted butter
      2 tb Pernod
      1 tb Anchovy paste
    1/8 ts Cayenne pepper
     12 sl Bacon, lean
     36 lg Oysters in shells
           Coarse salt for platters
           Lemon wedges
  Shuck oysters, reserving liquor and bottom shells.  Scrub and dry shells.
  In a bowl, combine lettuce, spinach, scallion, 1/2 cup bread crumbs,
  parsley, celery, and garlic.  In a skillet, met butter over moderate heat
  and cook the spinach mixture, stirring for 1-2 minutes, or until greens are
  wilted.  Stir in the Pernod, anchovy paste, cayenne, and salt and pepper to
  taste.  Chill the mixture, covered, for 1 hour. In another skillet, cook
  bacon over moderate heat until crisp. Transfer to paper towels to drain,
  and then crumble it. Arrange one oyster in each of the reserved shells and
  moisten each with some of the reserved liquor. Spread half the spinach
  mixture by heaping tablespoons onto the oysters. Sprinkle bacon over each
  oyster.  Top the bacon with remaining spinach mixture and sprinkle each
  with 1 Tbsp of remaining bread crumbs. Arrange oysters on an oven proof
  platters filled with coarse salt. Bake in the middle of a preheated 450f
  oven for 18 minutes or until bread crumbs are well browned. Garnish with
  parsley sprigs and lemon wedges and serve. a 1976 Gourmet Mag. favorite
      Title: Oysters Thomas
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  4
     16 lg Oysters, fresh
           Rock salt
           Bearnaise Sauce
      1 lb Lump crab meat
           Cream Sauce
    1/4 c  Dry bread crumbs
           Paprika
           Lemon quarters
           Parsley sprigs
  Oysters Thomas
  serves 4
  Remove oysters from shells. Scrub half of shells and place on a bed of rock
  salt in a large flat pan.  Put 1  - 2  teaspoons Bearnaise Sauce in each
  shell;  top with  an  oyster  and  1 tablespoon crab meat. Combine
  remaining Bearnaise Sauce  with Cream Sauce and spoon on top. Sprinkle with
  bread crumbs  and paprika. Bake at dg400 for 15 minutes or until sauce
  starts to brown. Serve with lemon and parsley. **
      Title: Pace Con Queso Dip
 Categories: Dips, Microwave
   Servings:  1
      1 lb Velveta Process Cheese
           - Spread, Cubed
    1/2 c  Pace Picante Sauce
  Combine ingredients in saucepan.  Cook over low heat, stirring frequently,
  just until sauce is smooth.  Serve with corn chips, tortilla chips or
  vegetable dippers.  Makes 2-1/2 cups.
  Microwave Directions: Combine ingredients in 1-quart microwave safe bowl.
  Cook at high for 3 to 4 minutes or until cheese spread is melted, stirring
  after each 1-1/2 minutes.
  From: Pace booklet.
      Title: Pace Cream Cheese Dip
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  1
      8 oz Cream Cheese
      4 tb Pace Picante Sauce
  Soften cream cheese in a bowl.  Stir in Pace Picante Sauce.  Add lemon
  juice, salt and pepper to taste.  Blend well.  Serve with corn chips or
  potato chips.  Add more Pace Picante Sauce for a hotter taste.
  From: Pace booklet.
      Title: Pace Guacamole
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  1
      2 lg Ripe Avocados, Peeled,
           - Seeded And Mashed
    1/4 c  Pace Picante Sauce
      2 ts Lemon Juice
    1/4 ts Salt
  Combine all ingredients; mix well.  Serve as a dip or as a topping for
  Mexican foods, sandwiches and snacks.  Makes about 2 cups.
  From: Pace booklet.
      Title: Pancakes with Mushrooms
 Categories: Appetizers, Pancakes
   Servings:  7
------------------------------BATTER-----------------------------------
      1 c  Milk
      2    Eggs
      1 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Water
    1/2 ts Salt
      3 tb Salad Oil
-----------------------------STUFFING----------------------------------
      2 tb Butter
      1    Onion, Sliced
     10 oz Mushrooms, Sliced
      2 tb Water
      2    Slices White Bread
           Salt And Pepper
      3 tb Bread Crumbs
      2 tb Butter
  Heat the butter in a skillet, add onions, and fry until golden. Add
  mushrooms and 2 tablespoons water, cover and cook on low heat for 5
  minutes.  Soak the bread in water, squeeze.  Put everything through a
  grinder, season with salt and pepper.  Mix until creamy.  Spoon a little of
  the stuffing into the center of each pancake and fold the pancakes envelope
  fashion to encase the suffing completely.  Roll each stuffed pancake in
  leftover batter and in bread crumbs.  Fry in hot butter until golden on
  both sides. Yields 15 pancakes.
      Title: Panzerotti Master Recipe
 Categories: Pizza, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
     40    To 45 3-inch panzerotti.
  Yield: Roman Pepper Pastry will make approximately 30 to 35 3-inch
  panzerotti.  Any of the other yeast doughs will yield approximately
  Crust suggestions: Roman Pepper Pastry Crust, Basic Pizza Dough, Sicilian-
  style, Semolina, Herb, or Pepper-Lard Dough
  Six Fillings followed by General Instructions Filling #1 1/3 cup tomato
  sauce 1/2 cup mozzarella or scamorza, coarsely shredded 1 garlic clove,
  peeled and minced 2 fresh basil leaves, finely minced, or 1/4 tsp dried
  thyme, oregano, or marjoram Freshly ground black pepper to taste
  Filling #2 1/3 cup tomato sauce 1/2 cup mozzarella, coarsely shredded 1 -2
  oz can anchovies, drained and finely chopped 1 tsp finely minced fresh
  parsley leaves Freshly ground black pepper to taste
  Filling #3 1/2 cup cooked spinach, squeezed dry and finely chopped 1/2 cup
  ricotta 2 Tbsp freshly grated Parmesan cheese 1/2 cup finely minced
  prosciutto Freshly ground black pepper to taste
  Filling #4 1/2 cup cooked spinach, squeezed dry and finely chopped 1 -2 oz
  can anchovies, drained and finely chopped 2 Tbsp drained capers 2 Tbsp
  ricotta Freshly ground black pepper to taste
  Filling #5 1/2 cup shredded Fontina cheese 1/2 cup finely chopped onion,
  sauteed in 2 tsp. olive oil until wilted 1 tsp dried herbes de Provence or
  1 Tbsp assorted fresh herbs 10 oil-cured black olives, pitted and finely
  chopped Freshly ground black pepper to taste
  Filling #6 1/2 cup ricotta 1/4 cup finely chopped salami 1/2 cup smoked
  mozzarella, coarsely shredded
  General Instructions for Panzerotti
  1. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees for 30 minutes.
  2. Roll the dough of your choice out to an even 1/8 inch thickness with a
  rolling pin.  If necessary, use dustings of flour to prevent the dough from
  sticking.
  3. Cut out as many panzerotti as possible using a 3 inch glass as a cutter.
  4. Combine all of the ingredients together in a bowl for any of the 6
  filling suggestions.
  5. Put a scant teaspoon of filling on one half of each of the circles of
  dough. (There will be leftover filling if using Roman Pepper Pastry Dough;
  use it in an omelet.)
  6. Fold the dough over into little crescent shapes, pressing down to seal
  the edges with your fingers.  Place each one on an oiled baking sheet.
  7. Bake for 15 to 20 minutes, or until lightly colored.  Or deep-fry in 2
  inches of vegetable oil until golden.  Panzerotti are best served piping
  hot.
  Freezing Panzerotti
  Freeze the raw panzerotti in one layer on a baking sheet.  Once they are
  frozen solid, they can be transferred to plastic bags.  The can be frozen
  up to 4 months.
  Reheating Panzerotti
  To reheat Panzerotti,simply put them on a baking sheet and warm them up in
  a 350 degree oven for 10 to 15 minutes.
  To bake frozen panzerotti, preheat the oven to 450 degrees.  Lay the
  panzerotti on a baking sheet and cover them tightly with aluminum foil.
  Bake for 15 minutes.  Then remove the foil and continue baking until
  turnovers are golden brown.
  Source: The Pizza Book by Evelyne Sloman Posted by Linda Davis
      Title: Papadakis Stuffed Grape Leaves
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  8
  1 1/2 lb Ground lamb
      1 lg Yellow onion; chopped fine
      1 bn Parsley; chopped
      1 bn Fresh mint; chopped
      1 c  Pine nuts
    1/2 c  Fresh lemon juice
    1/2 c  Olive oil
    1/2 ts Oregano
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1    Jar grape leaves *
           -Water (as needed)
  *Note: Grape leaves should be washed and stems removed.
  In a large bowl place the lamb, onions, parsley, mint, pine nuts, lemon
  juice, olive oil, oregano, salt, and pepper.  Mix the ingredients together
  with your hands so that they are well combined.
  Lay a grape leaf out flat.  Place approximately 3 ounces of the lamb
  mixture in the center of the grape leaf.  Fold over the stem end.  Fold
  over the two sides.  Roll up the grape leaf so that the mixture is
  completely encased.  Repeat this process until all of the meat mixture is
  used.
  Preheat the oven to 350 F.  Line the bottom of a large baking dish with
  approximately 10 grape leaves.  Place the stuffed grape leaves in the dish
  so that they are tightly packed.  Cover the stuffed graped leaves with
  water and bake them for 1 hour.
  Source: Papadakis Taverna - San Pedro, California California Beach Recipe -
  by Joan & Carl Stromquist - ISBN: 0-9622807-3-9
      Title: Papaya Cucumber Salsa
 Categories: Dips, Spreads, Condiments
   Servings:  6
      2 c  Finely diced English
           -cucumber, unpeeled
      2 c  Diced peeled papaya or mango
      2 tb Chopped fresh dill
      2 tb White wine vinegar or lime
           -juice
  pepper
  In bowl, combine cucumber, papaya, dill and vinegar.  Season with pepper to
  taste.  Salsa can be prepared up to one day in advance; drain liquid off
  before serving.
  Origin: Canadian Living, February 1991. Shared by: Sharon Stevens
      Title: Parmesan Pine Cone
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  8
      1 c  Sliced Almonds
     12 oz Cream Cheese, Softened
    1/2 c  Grated Parmesan Cheese
    1/4 c  Mayonnaise
  1 1/2 ts Fresh Oregano, Chopped Or:
    1/2 ts Dried Oregano
      1 sm Crushed Garlic Clove
           Crackers
  1. Preheat oven to 325 degrees. Spread almonds in a single layer on a
  baking sheet. Toast in oven, shaking pan once or twice, until almonds are
  lightly browned, 7 to 10 minutes. Cool. >>>
  2. In a medium bowl or in a food processor, combine cream cheese, Parmesan
  cheese, mayonnaise, oregano, and garlic. Blend until well mixed.
  Refrigerate until firm but still pliable, about 1 hour.
  3. Place cheese mixture on a serving board or platter and form into shape
  of a pine cone. Stud top with toasted slivered almonds to complete
  illusion. Serve with crackers.
      Title: Party Cheese Log
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings:  6
      2    (8 oz) pkgs cream cheese,
           -softened
      1    (10 oz) pkg sharp cheddar
           -cheese, shredded
      1 tb Chopped red pepper or
           -pimento
      1 tb Finely chopped onion
      2 ts Worcestershire sauce
      4 ts Lemon juice
      1 ds Of ground red pepper
      1 ds Of salt
  Chopped pecans Chopped parsley
  In large mixing bowl, beat cream cheese and cheddar cheese at medium speed
  with electric mixer until well blended. Add remaining ingredients except
  pecans and parsley; mix well. Chill several hours or overnight. Shape into
  log; garnish with nuts and parsley. Serve with crackers. Approximately 2
  cups.
  Prep time: 15 minutes plus chilling
  Microwave Tip: To soften cream cheese, microwave in bowl on medium (50%) 2
  minutes.
  Variations: Omit pecans. Roll in finely chopped parsley, dried beef or
  toasted chopped almonds.  Shape into 1 large or 1 inch balls. Coat with
  chopped parsley. Serve with crackers or cucumber slices.  Shape into
  pyramid. Coat one side with chopped nuts, parsley, and chopped dried beef.
  Shape into football with pimento strip lacing.
  From: Kraft advertisement Posted by: Bill McGimpsey
      Title: Party Crab Special
 Categories: Seafood, Dips
   Servings:  6
  1 1/2 tb Knox gelatin
    1/4 c  Cold water
      1 cn Cream of mushroom soup
      1 c  Mayonnaise
      2    (7 oz) cans crab meat
      1 c  Celery, finely chopped
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1 sm Onion, minced
    1/2 ts Salt
      1    (8 oz.) pkg cream cheese
  juice from one lemon
  Soften gelatin in cold water.  Heat soup, mayonnaise, Worcestershire sauce,
  onion and cream cheese in double boiler until cheese is melted. Add gelatin
  and salt.  Stir until dissolved.  Chill until partly set. Fold in crab meat
  and celery.  Turn into 1/2 quart mold and chill until firm. Serve with
  crackers.
      Title: Party Fodder
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
     12 oz Box wheat chex
     10 oz Box cheerios
      6 oz Bite size rice chex
      5 oz Slim pretzel sticks
      1    Or 2 cans mixed nuts
      1 lb Oleo or butter, melted
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
      2 tb Garlic salt
      1    Scant tbsp garlic powder
  PARTY FODDER
  Combine last four ingredients in large roasting pan. Add cereal and
  pretzels.
  Bake at 250 degrees for an hour, stirring every 15 minutes. Add the nuts
  during the last 15 minutes of baking.
  The size of cereal may vary, use your own judgment.
      Title: Party Meatballs
 Categories: Appetizers, Lamb
   Servings:  6
      1 lb Ground lamb
      1    Egg; slightly beaten
      1 tb Garlic powder
    1/2 c  Italian bread crumbs
      1 tb Vegetable oil
  Combine ingredients. Form 1-inch balls. Fry in oil, turning fairly often,
  about 12 minutes, till browned through. Serve warm and provide sauces for
  dipping : salsa (your favorite), catsup, horseradish (see below), kinky
  peanut sauce (see below)
  Horseradish - Combine 2 tbs sour cream with 1 tbs horseradish. Stir in some
  ground pepper and a squeeze of lemon.
  Kinky peanut sauce - melt 2 tbs peanut butter and 1 tsp honey.
      Title: Party Mix #1
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  2
    1/2 c  Butter
      1 tb Barbeque sauce
      2 ts Bon appetit
    1/4 ts Garlic powder
      2 tb Sesame seed, toasted
      2 c  Rice cereal, bite sized
      2 c  Corn cereal, bite sized
      1 c  Wheat cereal, bite sized
      1 c  Thin pretzel sticks
      2 c  Mixed nuts
  Melt butter in small saucepan; stir in seasonings and toasted sesame seed.
  (Toast seeds in a 350 oven for 15 minutes or until golden brown)  Pour hot
  seasoned butter over dry cereals, pretzel sticks and nuts.  Mix thoroughly
  until all pieces are coated.  Spread evenly in a 15 1/2 x 10 1/2 x 1/4 inch
  baking pan and bake in 250 oven for 1 hour, stirring occasionally.  Makes 2
  quarts.
  (I am assuming that when they talk about bite sized cereal, they mean
  Chex??)
  ** VARIATION ** CURRIED NIBBLERS: substitute 1/2 tsp curry powder, 1/2 tsp
  cinnamon, 2 tsp onion salt and dash cayenne or red pepper for the above
  seasonings.
      Title: Party Mix #2
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      7 c  Of your favorite corn, wheat
           -and/or rice cereals
      1 c  Pretzel sticks
    3/4 c  Salted nuts
           Combine:
      6 tb Melted butter or margarine
      4 ts Lea & Perrins Original
           -Worcestershire Sauce
      1 ts Lawry's Seasoned Salt
  Mix together:
  Pour over mixture and mix well. Spread on cookie sheet and bake at 250 for
  about 45 minutes, stirring every 15 minutes. Spread on paper towels to
  cool.
      Title: Party Pick-Up Chicken Livers
 Categories: Appetizers, Poultry
   Servings: 24
     10    -minutes preparation time
     15    -minutes cooking time
---------------------------INGREDIENTS--------------------------------
    2/3 c  Bread crumbs; dry fine
      1 lb Chicken livers; trimmed
           -halved
      4 tb Butter; melted
    1/4 c  Ketchup
      2 tb Brown sugar
      2 tb Dijon mustart
  1 1/2 tb Worcestershire sauce
  1.  Preheat oven to 400F.  Place bread crumbs in a small dish.  dip chicken
  livers in melted butter, then in bread crumbs to coat.  Place on a lightly
  greased baking sheet.
  2.  Bake livers for 15 to 20 minutes, until they are cooked through and
  ctispy on the outside.
  3.  Meanwhile, in a small saucepan, combine ketchup, brown sugar, mustard,
  and Worcestershire.  Heat sauce to boiling, stirring to dissolve sugar.
  Serve the warm livers with the hot sauce for dipping.
  From:  365 Ways to Cook Chicken
      Title: Party Pleaser Meatballs
 Categories: Appetizers, Beef
   Servings: 12
      1    Recipe Of Basic Meatballs
    1/2 c  Coconut, Flaked
    1/4 c  Currant Or Grape Jelly
    1/4 c  Chutney Or Chutney Sauce *
    1/4 c  Dry Red Wine OR Orange Juice
      2 ts Mustard, Dry
  * Use a chopped chutney or chutney sauce.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Prepare the basic meatballs except; add coconut before mixing the
  ingredients.  Shape the mixture into 3/4-inch meatballs and bake at 400øF
  for about 15 minutes.  Drain off the excess fat.  In a large skillet, heat
  the remaining ingredients to boiling.  Add the meatballs, cover and simmer,
  stirring occasionally, until the sauce thickens and meatballs are glazed,
  about 20 minutes.  Serve with wooden or plastic picks.
      Title: Pasta Di Pina
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  4
      3 tb Olive Oil
      4 md Cloves Garlic *
      2 tb Fresh Bread Crumbs
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1    Env. Golden Onion Soup Mix
  3 1/2 c  Water
      6 oz Uncooked Fine Egg Noodles
      2 tb Finely Chopped Parsley
           Grated Parmesan Cheese
  * Garlic cloves should be finely chopped.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  In medium skillet, heat oil and cook garlic with bread crumbs over medium
  heat, stirring constantly, until garlic and bread crumbs are golden. Stir
  in pepper; set aside. In large saucepan, thoroughly blend golden onion
  recipe soup mix with water.  Bring to a boil, then stir in uncooked
  noodles.  Simmer uncovered stirring frequently, 7 minutes or until noodles
  are tender. (DO NOT DRAIN!) remove from heat, then toss with bread crumb
  mixture and parsley.  Sprinkle with cheese and serve. Makes about 4
  appetizer or 2 main-dish servings.
      Title: Pate De Chateau Blanc
 Categories: Appetizers, Beef
   Servings: 12
     12    White Castle hamburgers
      4    Eggs
      2 c  Milk
           Cream cheese
  Remove half the bun from each White Castle hamburger and discard. Place
  three of the remianing half-sandwiches in a food processor (pickle
  optional) and add one egg and 1/2 cup milk. Pulsate until the ingredients
  are chopped, but be carefull not to puree. Empty into a bowl and repeat the
  process three more times. Pack the mixture into an ungreased,
  standard-sized bread pan. Place pan into a larger pan and pour boiling
  water into the larger pan to a level half the depth of the bread pan. Bake
  in 350 deg F. oven for one hour. Cool loaf in refrigerator; overnight is
  best. Turn it out on a plate, decorate with cream cheese and cut pate into
  slices.
      Title: Pate Sucree
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  1
  1 1/3 c  Flour
      2 tb Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Unsalted Butter, Cold *
      1 lg Egg Yolk, Beaten With
  1 1/2 tb Ice Water
  * Unsalted butter should be cold and cut into pieces.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  In a bowl, stir together flour, sugar, and salt.  Add the butter and blend
  the mixture until it resembles coarse meal.  Add the yolk mixture. Toss
  until liquid is incorporated.  Form the dough into a ball. Dust with flour
  and chill it, wrapped in plastic wrap for 1 hour.
      Title: Peanut Butter Dip
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  6
      5 c  Peanut Butter
      2 c  Jam (flavour is at the
           -maker's discretion)
      2 c  Molasses
      1 c  Vinegar
  1 1/2 c  Sesame Seeds
  Mix all ingredients, save the seeds, together until as smooth of a
  consistency possible is achieved.  Add the seeds and stir in until
  well-blended.
  This recipe is best served with Bretton crackers, I find, but any dipable
  cracker/chip will suffice.
      Title: Peanut Chili Dip
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  4
    1/3 c  Peanut Butter (Any Variety)
      3 tb Water
      2 tb Soy Sauce
      2 tb Lemon Juice
      2 ts Honey
      2 x  Cloves Garlic, Finely Minced
      1 tb Chili Powder
      1 ds Crushed Dried Red Pepper
  GARNISH: finely chopped peanuts and dash of paprika, optional. Stir peanut
  butter and water into a paste and add other ingredients, mixing well. Spoon
  into serving bowl. Garnish. Makes 2/3 cup This dip is perfect with bland
  crackers, or with a variety of fresh vegetables, such as carrots, broccoli,
  green or red pepper, or cauliflower. NOTE: Add more water if your peanut
  butter is too firm.
      Title: Pear Avocado Mousse
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips
   Servings:  6
      2    Very ripe pears, peeled and
           -chopped
      1    Very ripe avocado, peeled,
           -seeded and chopped
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Grated orange rind
      2 tb Spiced or plain dark rum
    1/2 c  Chopped peanuts or macadamia
           -nuts
      1 ds Allspice
  mint sprigs for garnish
  Combine all ingredients in a blender or food processor and puree for
  approximately 1 minute.  Pour the pureed mixture into a glass dessert dish
  or parfait glasses and chill in the refrigerator for at least an hour.
  Garnish with mint sprigs and serve cold.
      Title: Pecan Cheese Crisps
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  7
    7/8 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
           Pn       cayenne pepper
    1/2 c  Margarine
      2 c  Shredded strong cheddar
           -cheese
    1/2 c  Chopped pecans
  Servings: 7 dozen crackers
  Sift together flour, baking powder, mustard and pepper. Cream margarine,
  gradually blend in cheese and nuts. Add flour mixture slowly until blended.
  Divide dough in half, make rolls 1 1/2" in diameter, wrap in foil, chill.
  Slice each roll into very thin slices. Arrange on greased cookie sheets.
  Bake at 400 deg F for 6 minutes. Cool immediately on wire racks. Posted by
  Linda Davis
      Title: Pecos Steaks on Olive Toast
 Categories: Beef, Appetizers
   Servings:  4
      4    Tender steaks (loin or rib)
      2 tb Minced garlic
      1 ts Bottled red chile flakes
    1/2 ts Black pepper
      1    French bread loaf
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      2 tb Chopped California ripe
           -olives
      1 tb Minced cilantro
  Trim steaks well. Mix 1 tablespoon garlic with chile flakes and black
  pepper with back of spoon, making paste. Rub on both sides of steaks. Cut 4
  thick (1") slices of bread on a sharp diagonal. Melt butter and mix in
  olives, cilantro and remaining 1 tablespoon garlic. Grill or broil bread
  just long enough toast both sides (if broiling, it may be easier to drop
  broiler rack down a notch before toasting bread). Spoon olive butter over
  bread. Place toast on plates and top with steaks.
  Cooking time: 7-10 minutes.
  Total preparation time: 15 minutes.
      Title: Peppered Cheddar Dip
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  2
  1 1/2 c  Sour cream
      1 c  Shredded Cheddar cheese
    1/4 c  Finely chopped onions
      3 tb Minced green pepper
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Red pepper sauce
      1 tb Milk
  Blend all ingredients.  If necessary, add another tbs of milk to make a
  good dipping consistency.  Cover, refrigerate at least 1 hour. Makes 2 cups
  Spicy as a Southwestern favorite should be.  Serve hot with corn chips.
      Title: Peppered Seafood Sausage
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  1
      1 lb Fish Fillets
           Such As Sole, Flounder,
           Salmon Or Whitefish
           All One Kind Or Mixed
    1/2 lb Shrimp And/Or Scallops,
           Raw, Cleaned
    1/2 c  Packed Cilantro Leaves
      4 lg Egg Whites
      1 tb Fresh Lemon Juice
      2 ts Ground Cumin
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Ground Black Pepper
      5    Feet Hog Casing
           In A Continuous Length,
           Soaked In Cold Water For
           A Few Minutes *
  *Note: If hog casing is unavailable, seven 5- by 10-inch pieces of kitchen
  parchment may be used instead.  See end of recipe for related info.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Cut the fish into long strips; the shrimp and scallops can remain whole.
  Put the seafood, jalapenos and cilantro through a coarse blade of a meat
  grinder.  Combine the ground seafood with the egg whites, lemon juice,
  cumin, salt and pepper in a large bowl. Rinse the hog casing in cold water
  by letting the water run from the tap directly through it.  (The casing
  should not have any holes.)  Gather the casing up onto the sauce stuffing
  funnel attachment on your meat grinder. Put the seafood mixture back in the
  grinder and begin to grind it through. When it begins to emerge from the
  funnel, tie the end of the casing in a knot, leaving 3 inches of it
  unfilled for expansion room.  Grind the mixture out, taking care not to
  overstuff the length of sausage; it should be about 1 inch wide.  If
  necessary, squeeze it gently with your hands to make this width as you
  work.  Continue with the entire length; you will have about 4 feet of
  sausage. Remove the funnel and use your finger to press out the last
  remaining seafood mixture.  Leave 3 inches for expansion and tie the end in
  a knot. Shape to make it even.  Coil it into a spiral and set it aside.
  Bring 1 inch of water to a boil in a large heavy skillet with a lid. Reduce
  the heat so that the water barely quivers.  Prick the sausage with a sharp
  knife pint at 3-inch intervals.  Place it in the barely moving water, cover
  the pan and cook for 10 minutes.  Turn off the heat and let the sausage
  rest for 10 minutes before serving. NOTE: If you use kitchen parchment,
  butter the paper and place 1/2 cup of the mixture on each piece. Roll it
  up, twist the ends and tie them securely with string. Poach as directed.
  Source: Chef Michael Roberts of Trumps in Los Angeles American Bistro
  0-8092-5047-0
      Title: Pepperoni Onion Quiche
 Categories: Eggs, Cheese, Pork, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      6 c  Minced sweet onions
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Olive oil
    1/8 ts Fresh ground pepper
      1 tb Butter
    1/8 ts Ground nutmeg
  1 1/2 tb Flour
    1/2 c  Grated Swiss cheese
      3    Eggs
     18    Thin slices pepperoni
    1/2 c  Half and half
      8    In prebaked pastry shell
    1/3 c  Yogurt
  Saute onions with oil and butter in skillet over low heat until well done,
  stirring often.  Do not brown.  Sprinkle with flour and continue cooking
  slowly about 2 minutes.  Cool well.  Beat eggs; add half and half, yogurt,
  salt, pepper, and nutmeg.  Add to cooled onions.  Sprinkle half the cheese
  on the bottom of the pre-baked pastry shell and fill with egg-onion
  mixture.  Arrange pepperoni slices on top.  Sprinkle with remaining cheese.
  Bake 10 minutes at 450 degrees; reduce heat to 300 degrees and bake 20
  minutes more.
  Source: Rock Springs Sweet Onion Festival Cook Book 1992
      Title: Peppy Cocktail Nuts
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
           Jim Vorheis
      4 tb Butter or margarine
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      2 ts Tabasco sauce
      1 tb Salad seasoning
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Garlic salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 lb Walnut or pecan halves
  In a large pan melt butter and add remaining ingredients except nuts. Stir
  until well blended.  Add nuts and toss to coat.  Cook covered over low heat
  for 20 minutes.  Stir occasionally.  Drain on brown paper. Store in an
  air-tight container.
  Colorado Cache Cookbook (1978) From the collection of Jim Vorheis
      Title: Permesan Chicken Wings Oreganata
 Categories: Appetizers, Poultry
   Servings: 12
     15 x  Minutes preparation time
     45 x  Minutes cook time
---------------------------INGREDIENTS--------------------------------
      1 c  Grated parmesan cheese (4oz)
      2 tb Chopped parsley
      2 ts Paprika
      1 ts Dried oregano
    1/2 ts Dried basil
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Freshly ground pepper
    1/2 c  Butter; melted
      1 lb Chicken wings; disjointed
           -and tips removed.
  1.  Preheat oven to 350F.  In a paper bag, combine cheese, parsley,
  papriak, oregano, basil, salt, and pepper.  Toss to mix.  Pour melted
  butter ina a shallow bowl.
  2.  Dip chicken pieces into butter, then place in a paper bag and shake to
  coat.  Place chicken on foil-lined baking sheet and bake 45 minutes. Serve
  hot.
  From:  365 Ways to Cook Chicken
      Title: Pesto Dip
 Categories: Dips
   Servings:  1
      1 c  Miracle Whip
      1 c  Sour Cream
     10 oz Frozen Chopped Spinach *
    1/3 c  Grated Parmesan Cheese
    1/4 c  Walnut Pieces
      1 ts Dried Basil
    1/4 ts Salt
      1    Clove Crushed Garlic
  * Frozen chopped spinach should be thawed and well drained.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Place all ingredients in a blender bowl and process until almost smooth.
  Cover and chill until serving time.  Makes 2 cups.  From: Los Angeles
  Times.
      Title: Phyllo, Eating Well's Low-Fat Method
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  1
  For appetizers with a lot of style but little fat, phyllo pastries are a
  natural. The paper-thin sheets of phyllo dough can be rolled, folded,
  shaped, seasoned, or filled in countless ways. In typical phyllo recipes,
  however, the layers of dough are freely brushed with melted butter; when
  baked, the butter keeps the thin sheets separate, producing a flaky--and
  fat-saturated--result. We developed a technique in which the leaves of
  phyllo are lightly coated with a blend of egg white and olive oil. During
  baking, the egg whites become crisp while the oil keeps the leaves
  separate. The low-fat technique has an unexpected and welcome benefit: the
  pastries turn out crisper and less oily than those made with pure fat, and
  filled pastires don't become soggy.
  Frozen phyllo (or filo or fillo) is available in most supermarkets; it is
  also sold fresh in some Greek and Middle Eastern specialty shops. One pound
  of dough averages 25 large sheets of pastry. Our recipes were devloped for
  full-sized sheets, either 14 by 18 inches or 12 by 17 inches. These
  appetizers work beautifully for entertaining because they can be prepared
  in advance and refrigerated or frozen.
  TIPS:
  Phyllo Dough is easy and fun to work with as long as it doesn't get soggy
  or dried out. To avoid these potential hazards:
     Thaw frozen phyllo in the refrigerator for at least 8 hours or
  overnight; this will prevent damp spots that could cause the sheets of
  dough to stick together.
     Remove phyllo from refrigerator, and leave unopened at room temperature
  for 1 to 2 hours.
     Clear a large work surface before removing phyllo from the box.
     Carefully unroll sheets onto a dry surface.
     Keep sheets of phyllo covered with plastic wrap or wax paper while you
  work; if the dough is left uncovered for even a short period of time, it
  dries out and breaks into flakes.
     Work quickly and with a gentle hand.
  From Eating Well, May/June 1993.
      Title: Pickled Eggs #1
 Categories: Eggs, Appetizers, Condiments
   Servings: 12
     12    Eggs
      1 tb Salt
      2 c  White Vinegar
      1 c  Cold Water
      1 tb Mixed Whole Spices (In Bag)
  Put eggs and salt in cold water and bring to the boil. Shut off heat; let
  satnd for five minutes. Drain. Place eggs in cold water and peel,(keep the
  water running while peeling the eggs). Let eggs stand until cold. Mix
  together the remaining ingredients. Let boil and then cool. Make sure eggs
  and vinegar are cold before putting in jars. Leave 24 hours before eating
  pickled eggs.
      Title: Pickled Eggs #2
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      6    Hardcooked eggs
      1 c  Cider vinegar
      1 c  Beet liquid
    1/3 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Onion, chopped
      4    Whole cloves
  Place peeled eggs in bowl or jar.  Mix vinegar, beet liquid, sugar, salt,
  onion and cloves.  Pour over eggs.  Cover and refrigerate at least 2 days.
  Slice eggs.  6 servings, 145 calories per serving
  Source:  Betty Crocker's Cookbook, Bantam 1987 pocketbook Shared by
  Elizabeth Rodier Aug 93
      Title: Pickled Mushrooms
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  4
      4 lb Small Mushrooms
      4 c  Boiling Water
  1 1/2 tb Salt
-----------------------------MARINADE----------------------------------
  1 3/4 c  Water
     15    Peppercorns
      2    Bay Leaves
  2 1/2 tb Salt
    3/4 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Vinegar
  Cut the mushroom stems off at the cap level.  Place the heads in boiling
  salted water.  Simmer till they sink to the bottom.  Strain. Boil marinade
  water with peppercorns and bay leaves for 30 minutes. Add salt and sugar.
  Stir till dissolved.  Add the vinegar, bring to a boil. Place the mushrooms
  in small jars.  Cover with hot marinade. Close the jars. Keep refrigerated.
  Use for canapes and salads, or as appetizers.
      Title: Pickled Shrimp
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  8
    1/4 c  Crab Boil, Tied In Bag
  2 1/2 lb Shrimp, Peeled & Deveined
    3/4 c  White Vinegar
      5 ts Celery Seeds
      2 ts Salt
      1 c  Olive Oil
      1 lg Onion, Sliced Thin
      3    Bay Leaves
  In a kettle, bring 6 cups water with the crab boil to a boil, simmer for 5
  minutes, and add shrimp.  Boil for 5 minutes and drain.  In a small bowl,
  whisk together the vinegar, celery seeds, salt, and pepper to taste. Add
  oil in a stream, whisking continuously until emulsified. In a deep glass
  dish, arrange half the shrimp in one layer, arrange half the onion slices
  over them, and top with bay leaves.  Arrange the rest of the shrimp over
  the onions and sprinkle the remaining onion slices over them. Pour the
  dressing over all.  Let marinate, covered and chilled for 24 hours. Serve
  shrimp, skewered on picks or with crackers. a Gourmet Mag 1960 favorite.
      Title: Pimiento Cheese
 Categories: Dips, Appetizers, Cheese, Eggs
   Servings:  4
      1    Egg Beaten
    1/3 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Vinegar
      1 tb Water
      2 c  Cheddar Cheese (Grated)
    1/4 c  Pimientos (Chopped)
  In small saucepan, beat egg and sugar until well blended.  Stir in vinegar
  and water.  Cook over low heat until thick.  Set aside until cool. In
  medium bowl, mix together cheese, pimientos and sauce.  Chill unitl ready
  to use.
      Title: Pimiento Cheese Spread
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings:  6
      1 lb Velveta (softened or melted)
      1 md Size can Pimentos (mashed)
      1 ts Sugar
  sprinkle of Black Pepper
  Mix together and add enough mayonnaise or salad dressing to make moist and
  spreadable (about 1/2 c), adding more sugar for taste.
  I soften velveda/pimento in micro for 2 min or so, then use Hellman mayo,
  and sometimes a touch of minced fresh onion.
      Title: Pink Pickled Onions
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  4
      1    Medium-size red onion
    1/4 c  White wine vinegar
      2 tb Sugar
    1/3 c  Water
  Thinly slice onion; rinse well. Mix onion with vinegar, sugar, and water.
  Cover and chill for 30 minutes to 1 hour; drain.
      Title: Piquant Popcorn
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  8
      2 tb Corn oil
      2    Garlic cloves, crushed
      1    1/2" piece ginger root,
           -peeled, chopped
      1 c  Popping corn
    1/4 c  Butter
      2 ts Hot chili sauce
      2 tb Chopped fresh parsley
           Salt to taste
  Heat oil in a saucepan. Add 1 clove of crushed garlic, ginger and popping
  corn. Stir well.
  Cover and cook over medium-high heat 3-5 minutes, holding lid firmly and
  shaking pan frequently until popping stops. Turn popped corn onto a dish,
  discarding any unpopped corn kernels. Melt butter in pan. Stir in remaining
  clove of crushed garlic and chili sauce.
  Return corn to pan and toss well until evenly coated with mixture. Add
  parsley and salt and stir well. Turn into a serving dish. Serve warm or
  cold.
  VARIATION: Omit chili sauce and add 1 teaspoon dry mustard, 1 teaspoon
  paprika, 1/2 teaspoon ground coriander and 2 tablespoons chopped fresh
  chives to melted butter.
      Title: Piquant Salmon Rolls
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  4
      4 oz Cream cheese
    1/4 c  Walnuts, chopped
      1 tb Chopped fresh chives
      1    Stalk celery, chopped
      3 ts Lemon juice
      3 pn Cayenne pepper
    1/4 ts Ground coriander
      8    Thin slices smoked salmon
      8    Thin slices whole-wheat
           -bread
           Butter
      8    Thin slices cucumber
           Fresh ground pepper
           Fresh dill sprigs (opt)
           Chives (opt)
  In a bowl, soften cream cheese and stir in walnuts, chives and celery.
  Add 2 teaspoons of lemon juice and spices and mix well. Spread cream cheese
  mixture on each slice of salmon and season with pepper. Roll up to form
  neat rolls.
  Toast slices of bread and cut 8 (2.5") rounds, using a biscuit cutter.
  Spread thinly with butter. Place a cucumber slice on each bread round and
  place a salmon roll on top of each cucumber. Drizzle with remaining lemon
  juice and garnish with dill sprigs and chives, if desired.
  NOTE: Salmon rolls can be prepared several hours in advance and
  refrigerated. Toast bases, however, and better freshly made. Once
  assembled, serve within 30 minutes.
      Title: Pisang Goreng
 Categories: Appetizers, Eggs
   Servings:  4
      1 c  All-Purpose Flour
      1 c  Water
      1 ts Baking Powder
      1    Egg Beaten
        pn Salt
      4    Ripe Bananas Peeled Halved
    1/2 c  10% Cream
      1 c  Brown Sugar
      1 tb Butter
      2 tb Dark Rum
  Mix the flour, water, baking powder, egg and salt and let sit for about 20
  minutes.  This is your batter. Dip the banana halves in the batter and deep
  fry in vegetable oil at 325øF for about 5 minutes or until the batter is
  golden brown.  Remove the bananas from the oil and allow to drain.
  Meanwhile mix the cream, brown sugar and butter together in a sauce pan and
  cook over medium heat until the sugar has dissoved. Add the rum and be sure
  the sauce doesn't boil.  Place some vanilla ice cream on a plate. Place a
  banana over the ice cream and pour a generous amount of rum sauce over the
  dessert.  Serve while the banana is still hot.
      Title: Pita Crisps
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings:  4
      2 x  Pita Breads (6" diameter)
      2 ts Margarine
      2 ts Oregano
      4 tb Grated Parmesan Cheese
  Preheat broiler. Split pitas horizontally into 2 rounds. Spread rough edges
  with margarine. Place on cookie sheet. In a small bowl, toss together
  oregano and Parmesan cheese. Sprinkle over margarine. Cut each bread into
  wedges. Broil about 5" from heating element until crisp, about 2 minutes.
  Watch carefully! VARIATIONS: experiment with other herbs of your choice
  such as chives and parsley; or, omit oregano and sprinkle with sesame
  seeds. Serve alone or with dips or pates.
      Title: Plum Tomato Tart
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings: 40
      1 lg Egg white
      3 tb Olive oil
      6    Phyllo dough sheets (14x18")
      5 ts Breadcrumbs; dry
    1/3 c  Dijon mustard
    1/4 c  Parmesan cheese; freshly
           --grated
      1 lb Plum tomatoes (about 8)
      2 tb Parsley; fresh (chopped)
      1 ts Thyme; fresh, or 1/2 t drie
       Set oven rack on the upper level; preheat to 400 degrees F. Lightly
  coat a baking sheet with nonstick cooking spray or line with parchment
  paper In a small bowl, whisk together the egg white and 2 Tbsp. olive oil.
       Lay a sheet of phyllo on the prepared baking sheet, and with a pastry
  brush, lightly coat the surface with the egg-white mixture.  Sprinkle with
  1 tsp. breadcrumbs. Repeat this step, layering 4 more sheets of phyllo on
  top and brush with egg-white mixture. To form an edge to the tart,
  carefully roll over the edges toward the center, using the blade of a knife
  to help you get started.
       With a rubber spatula, spread mustard over the surface of the dough
  and sprinkle with cheese. (The tart can be prepared ahead to this point.
  Wrap and freeze for up to 2 months. Do not thaw before continuing.) Arrange
  tomato slices on top in 5 rows of 8 slices each. Bake for 15 to 20 minutes,
  or until the pastry is golden brown. Let cool in the pan for 5 minutes. In
  a small bowl, combine the remaining 1 Tbsp. olive oil, parsley, garlic and
  thyme. With your fingers or a fork, dab some of the herb mixture onto each
  tomato slice. Slide the tart onto a serving platter or, if you wish to
  serve bite-sized appetizers, slide it onto a cutting board and with a sharp
  knife or pizza cutter, cut the tart into squares between the tomato slices.
  Serve warm or at room temperature.
  32 calories per piece: 1 g protein, 1 g fat, 4 g carbohydrate; 40 mg
  sodium; 1 mg cholesterol.
  **"The tangy mustard is a pleasing accent to the sweet tomatoes in this
  easy-to-prepare appetizer." ~-From Eating Well, May/June 1993.
      Title: Poached Lobster Delights and Garden Vegetables
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
   Servings:  4
      1 c  Chicken broth
    1/4 ts Garlic powder
    1/4 ts Dried basil
    1/4 ts Thyme
    1/4 ts Oregano leaves
      1 tb Cornstarch
      1 c  Quartered fresh mushrooms
      1 pk Louis Kemp Lobster Delights
           -chunks (8 oz)
      3 c  Fresh vegetables (broccoli
           -flowerets, carrot and
           -zucchini slices)
           -OR
      1 pk Frozen mixed vegetables,
           -thawed (16 oz)
      1 tb Lime juice
      1 ts Margarine
  Combine first six ingredients in saucepan. Cook and stir on medium heat
  until mixture thickens and boils. Add mushrooms, Lobster Delights and
  vegetables. Cover; reduce heat. Simmer about 10 minutes or until
  tender-crisp, stirring once. Stir in lime juice and margarine.
  111 calories per serving.
      Title: Pokey's Beef Dip or Appetizer
 Categories: Dips, Beef, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      8 oz Cream cheese
      2 tb Milk
      2 tb Green pepper, chopped finely
    1/8 ts Black pepper
      2 tb Minced, finely, onion
    1/2 c  Sour cream
      4    Or 5 tsp Kraft's horseradish
           -sauce
    1/4 c  Nuts plus about 1/8 c for
           -later use
      1    Or 2 pkg dried beef, cut up
           -or clipped into fine pieces
  Parmesan cheese (optional)
  Blend softened cream cheese and milk.  Stir in finely snipped beef, onion,
  green pepper, and black pepper.  Mix well; add 1/4 cup nuts, sour cream,
  and horseradish.  Spoon into baking dish.  Sprinkle remaining 1/8 nuts on
  top.  Bake at 350 degrees for 10 minutes.  After cooled, sprinkle with
  Parmesan cheese, if desired.  Serve on crackers, breadsticks, vegetables,
  etc.  Scrumptious!!!
  From Judith Murphy
      Title: Polenta Triangles
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese
   Servings: 30
      3 c  Cold water
      1 c  Coarse yellow cornmeal
      1    Env onion soup mix
      4 oz Mild chopped green chilies,
           -drained (1 can)
    1/2 c  Whole kernel corn
    1/2 c  Red pepper, roasted and
           -finely chopped
    1/2 c  Sharp Cheddar cheese,
           -shredded
  Bring the water to a boil in a 3-quart saucepan.  With a wire whisk, stir
  in the cornmeal and onion soup mix.  Simmer uncovered, stirring constantly,
  for 25 minutes, or until thickened.  Stir in the chilies, corn and roasted
  red peppers.
  Spread the mixture in a lightly greased 9-inch-square baking pan and
  sprinkle with the cheese.  Let stand for 20 minutes, or until firm.  Cut
  into about 30 triangles.  Serve at room temperature or heat in a 350 F oven
  for 5 minutes or until warm.
  MICROWAVE:  Combine the water, cornmeal and onion soup mix in a
  microwave-safe casserole.  Cover and microcook on HIGH (100%) for 20
  minutes, stirring every 5 minutes (mixture will be thick).  Stir in the
  chilies, corn and roasted red peppers.  Spread into pan as above.
  Makes about 30 appetizers.
  [The Baltimore Sun; Dec 8, 1991]
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Polynesian Kabobs
 Categories: Appetizers, Pork
   Servings:  1
     20 oz Pineapple Chunks In Syrup
      6 tb Soy Sauce
      3 tb Honey
      1 tb Dry Sherry
      1 ts Grated Orange Peel
    1/8 ts Garlic Powder
      2 lb Cooked Ham, Cut Into 25
           -Cubes (1 Inch)
      1 lb Thick Sliced Bacon
     25 lg Stuffed Olives
     25    Cherry Tomatoes
  Drain pineapple; reserve syrup.  Blend syrup, soy sauce, honey, sherry,
  orange peel and garlic powder in large bowl; stir in ham cubes.  Cover;
  refrigerate 1 hour, stirring occasionally.  Cut each bacon slice crosswise
  in half; wrap pineapple chunks with halved bacon slices.  Thread bamboo or
  metal skewers with a wrapped pineapple chunk, an olive, another wrapped
  pineapple chunk, a marinated ham cube and a cherry tomato.  Place skewers
  on rack of broiler pan; brush with marinade.  Broil 3 to 4 minutes on each
  side, or until bacon is crisp.  Typed by Syd Bigger.
      Title: Popcorn Italiano
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  8
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      1 sm Clove garlic,minced
    1/2 ts Dried oregano leaves,crushed
      8 c  Hot popcorn
      2 tb Grated Parmesan cheese
  In 1 1/2 quart sauce pan over medium high heat,in hot butter, cook garlic
  with oregano.In a large bowl,drizzle butter mixture over popcorn;toss with
  cheese.Makes 8 cups.
      Title: Poppy & Sesame Seed Straws
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings: 60
      2 tb Poppy seeds
      2 tb Sesame seeds
      1 lg Egg white
      2 tb Olive oil
    1/4 ts Salt
      6    Phyllo dough sheets (14x18"
       Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Lightly coat 2 baking sheets with
  nonstick cooking spray or line with parchment paper. Heat a small heavy
  skillet over medium heat. Add the poppy and sesame seeds and cook, stirring
  until they are aromatic and toasted, 2 to 3 minutes. Turn out onto a plate
  to cool. In a small bowl, whisk together egg white, oil and salt.
       Lay a sheet of phyllo on a work surface with a short side toward you.
  With a pastry brush, lightly coat the lower half of the sheet with the
  egg-white mixture and sprinkle with 1 tsp. seeds. Fold the upper half over
  to cover the lower half. Brush the right half of the folded sheet with
  egg-white mixture, sprinkle with 1/4 tsp. seeds and fold the left half over
  the seeds. Brush the bottom half of the folded sheet with the egg-white
  mixture, sprinkle with 1/4 tsp. seeds and fold the upper half over.
  Finally, brush the top with the egg-white mixture and sprinkle with 1/4
  tsp. seeds. Cut into 10 short strips using a knife or serrated pastry
  cutter. With a wide spatula, transfer the strips to the baking sheet,
  placing them about 1/2 inch apart. Repeat the procedure with the remaining
  5 sheets of phyllo, egg-white mixture and seeds. Bake the straws for 8 to
  10 minutes, until golden and crisp. Transfer to a rack to cool.
       The straws may be stored in an airtight container at room temperature
  for 1 week or in the freezer for up to 2 months.
       Makes about 5 dozen straws.
  19 calories per straw: 1 g protein, 1 g fat, 3 g carbohydrate; 23 mg
  sodium; 9 mg cholesterol.
  From Eating Well, May/June 1993.
      Title: Pork U Pine Meatballs
 Categories: Ground beef, Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      3 lb Ground beef
  1 1/2 c  Of rice
      1    Very large onion, chopped
      2 cn Tomato sauce
  Mix ground beef, onions, rice, roll into balls. Place meatballs in pan and
  pour tomato sauce over. Bake at 350 degrees for 1 hour.
  Randy Rigg
      Title: Potato Cakes
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      2 c  Mashed Potatoes
      1    Egg White, Slightly Beaten
      2 tb Chopped Onion
      2 tb All-Purpose Flour
    1/8 ts Salt
      1    Pepper To Taste
      1 ts Oil
  In a medium size bowl, combine potatoes, egg white, onion, flour, salt and
  pepper.  Meanwhile, heat oil in a large skillet over medium high heat. When
  hot, put about 2 tablespoons potato mixture for each cake into skillet.
  Cook until well browned, then turn with a spatula and cook other side until
  brown.  Continue making cakes, keeping first ones warm. Cal: 74, Fat: 1 g.
      Title: Potato Puffs
 Categories: Appetizers
   Servings:  6
      2    Eggs
      1 c  Mashed potatoes
    1/2 c  Flour
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
           Oil for deep-fat frying