Title: Banana Nut Cheesecake
 Categories: Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 c  Chocolate Wafer Crumbs
    1/4 c  Margarine, Melted
     16 oz Cream Cheese Softened
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Mashed Ripe Bananas
      2    Large Eggs
    1/4 c  Chopped Walnuts
    1/3 c  Milk Chocolate Chips
      1 tb Margarine
      2 tb Water
 
  Combine crumbs and margarine; press onto the bottom of a 9-inch
  springform pan.  Bake at 350 degrees F., 10 minutes. Combine cream
  cheese, sugar and banana, mixing at medium speed on electric mixer
  until well blended. Add eggs, one at a time, mixing well after each
  addition. Stir in walnuts, pour over crust.  Bake at 350 degrees F.,
  40 minutes. Loosen cake from rim;cool before removing rim pf pan.
  Melt chocolate pieces and margarine with water over low heat,
  stirring until smooth. Drizzle over cheesecake. Chill.
 

 

 
      Title: Mocha Chocolate Chip Cheesecake
 Categories: Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 10 servings
 
  2 1/4 c  Graham Cracker Crumbs
     12 oz Seimi Sweet Choc.Chips *
  2 1/3 c  Butter, melted **
    1/2 c  Milk
      4 ts Instant Coffee
      1    Env. Unflavored Gelatin
     16 oz Cream Cheese, Softened
     14 oz Sweetened Condensed Milk
      2 c  Heavy Cream, Whipped
      1 c  Chocolate Chips *
 
  *     Cholcolate chips should be the Little Bits chocolate Chips and
  they
        are to be devided into 2 separate cups.  Set aside. ** Butter
  is to be melted and then cooled to room temperature.
  ~---------------------------------------------------------------------
  ~--- In large bowl, combine grham cracker crumbs, 1 cup little bits
  chocolate chips and butter, mix well.  Pat firmly into 9-inch
  springform pan, covering bottom and 2 1/2-inches up sides.  Set
  aside. In small saucepan, combine milk and instant coffee, sprinkle
  gelatin on top. Set aside for 1 minute.  Cook over low heat, stirring
  constantly until gelatin and coffee dissolve.  Set aside.  In large
  bowl, beat cream cheese until creamy. Beat in sweetened condensed
  milk and gelatin mixture. Fold in whipped cream and remaining 1 cup
  of little bits chocolate chips. Pour into prepared pan. Chill until
  firm (about 2 hours). Run knife around edge of cake to separate from
  pan, remove rim. Makes 1 9-inch Cheesecake
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Cherry Cheesecake
 Categories: Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 16 servings
 
  8 1/2 oz Chocolate Wafers, Fine Crush
    1/2 c  Butter, Melted
     12 oz Semi-sweet Chocolate Chips
  1 1/2 c  Heavy cream
     16 oz Cream Cheese, Softened
    1/4 c  Sugar
      4    Large Eggs
    3/4 c  Cherry Flavored Liqueur
      1 ts Vanilla Extract
      1 lb Cherry Pie Filling
    1/2 c  Heavy Cream Whipped (Opt.)
 
  In large bowl, combine chocolate wafer crumbs and butter.  Pat fimly
  into 9-inch springform pan, covering bottom and 2 1/2 inches up
  sides.  Chill. Preheat oven to 325 degrees F.  Combine over hot (not
  boiling) water, chocolate chips and heavy cream.  Stir until morsels
  are melted and mixture is smooth.  Set aside.  In large bowl, combine
  cream cheese and sugar, beating untl creamy.  Add eggs, one at a
  time, beating well after each addition.  Add chocolate mixture,
  cherry liqueur, and vanilla, mix until blended.  Pour into prepared
  crust.  Bake at 325 degrees F. for 60 minutes. Turn oven off.  Let
  stand in oven with door ajar 1 hour.  Remove, cool completely.  Chill
  24 hours. Spread cherry pie filling over top of cheesecake leaving
  1-inch from the edge. Decorate edge with whipped cream, if desired.
 

 

 
      Title: Heavenly Chocolate Cheesecake
 Categories: Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      2 c  Vanilla Wafers, Fine Crush
      1 c  Ground Toasted Almonds
    1/2 c  Butter, Melted
    1/2 c  Sugar
     12 oz Milk Chocolate Chips
    1/2 c  Milk
      1    Env. Unflavored Gelatin
     16 oz Cream Cheese, Softened
    1/2 c  Sour Cream
    1/2 ts Almond Extract
    1/2 c  Heavy Cream, Whipped
           Garnishes *
 
  *   Garnishes to include whipped cream and chocolate shavings
  (optional).
  ~---------------------------------------------------------------------
  ~--- In large bowl, combine vanilla waver crumbs, almonds, butter and
  sugar; mix well.  Pat firmly into 9-inch springform pan, covering
  bottom and 2 1/2 inches up the sides.  Set aside. Melt over hot (not
  boiling) water milk chocolate chips; stir until smooth. Set aside.
  Pour milk into small saucepan; sprinkle gelatin on top.  Set aside
  for 1 minute. Cook over low heat, stirring constantly until gelatin
  dissolves. Set aside. In large bowl, combine cream cheese, sour
  cream, and melted chocolate chips; beat until fluffy.  Beat in
  gelatin mixture and almond extract. Fold in whipped cream.  Pour into
  prepared pan.  Chill until firm (about 3 hours). Run knife around
  edge of cake to separate from pan; remove rim. Garnish with whipped
  cream and chocolate shavings, if desired. Makes 1 9-inch Cheesecake
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Raspberry Cheesecake
 Categories: Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 10 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Creme-filled Cookie Crumbs *
      2 tb Margarine, Melted
     32 oz Cream Cheese, Softened
  1 1/4 c  Sugar
      3    Large Eggs
      1 c  Sour Cream
      1 ts Vanilla
      6 oz Semi-sweet Chocolate Chips**
    1/3 c  Strained Raspberry Preserves
      6 oz Semi-sweet Chocolate Chips
    1/4 c  Whipping Cream
 
  *  Cookie crumbs should come from 18 Cream Filled Cookies that have
  been
     finely crushed. ** This 6 ozs of Chocolate chips should be melted
  and cooled slightly .
  ~---------------------------------------------------------------------
  ~--- Combine crumbs and margarine; press onto bottom of 9-inch
  springform pan. Combine 24 ozs of cream cheese and sugar, mixing at
  medium speed on electric mixer until well blended.  Add eggs, one at
  a time, beating well after each addition.  Blend in sour cream and
  vanilla; pour over crust. Combine remaining 8 ozs cream cheese and
  melted chocolate, mixing at medium speed on eletric mixer until well
  blended.  Add Red Raspberry preserves; mix well.  Drop rounded
  measuring tablespoonsfuls of chocolate cream cheese batter over plain
  cream cheese batter, do not swirl.  Bake at 325 degrees F., 1 hour
  and 25 minutes.  Loosen cake from rim of pan; cool before removing
  rim of pan. Melt chocolate pieces and whipping cream over low heat
  stirring until smooth. Spread over cheescake. Chill. Garnish with
  additonal whipping cream, whipped, raspberries and fresh mint leaves,
  if desired.
 

 

 
      Title: Marble Cheesecake
 Categories: Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 c  Graham Cracker Crumbs
      3 tb Sugar
      3 tb Margarine, Melted
     24 oz Cream Cheese, Softened
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
      3    Large Eggs
      1 oz Square Unsweeted Chocolate *
 
  *  The 1 oz square of unsweetened Chocolate should be melted.
  ~---------------------------------------------------------------------
  ~--- Combine crumbs, sugar, and margarine; press onto bottom of
  9-inch Spring- form cake pan.  Bake at 350 degrees F., 10 minutes.
  Combine cream cheese, sugar and vanilla, beating at medium speed on
  electric mixer until well blended.  Add eggs, one at a time, mixing
  well after each addition. Blend chocolate into 1 cup batter.  Spoon
  plain and chocolate batters alternately over crust; cutting through
  batters with knife several times for the marble effect.  Bake at 450
  degrees F., 10 minutes. Reduce oven temperature to 250 degrees F.;
  continue baking 30 additional minutes. Loosen cake from rim of pan;
  cool before removing rim of pan. Chill.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Chip Cheesecake Supreme
 Categories: Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 c  Chocolate Wafer Crumbs
      3 tb Margarine, Melted
     24 oz Cream Cheese, Softened
    3/4 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Unbleached All-Purpose Flour
      3    Large Eggs
    1/2 c  Sour Cream
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Mini Semi-sweet Chips
 
  Combine crumbs and magarine; press onto bottom of 9-inch springform
  pan. Bake at 350 degrees F., 10 minutes. Combine cream cheese, sugar
  and flour, mixing at medium speed on electric mixer until well
  blended. Add eggs, one at a time, mixing well after each addition.
  Blend in sour cream and vanilla.  Stir in chocolate chips and pour
  into crust. Bake at 350 degrees F., 55 minutes.  Loosen cake from rim
  of pan; cool before removing rim of pan.  Chill.  Garnish with
  whipped cream and fresh mint leaves, if desired.
 

 

 
      Title: Rocky Road Cheesecake
 Categories: Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 c  Chocolate Wafer Crumbs
      3 tb Margarine, Melted
      1    Env. Unflavored Gelatin
    1/4 c  Cold Water
     16 oz Soft Cream Cheese
    3/4 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Cocoa
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Mini Marshmallows
      1 c  Whipping Cream, Whipped
    1/2 c  Chopped Nuts
 
  Combine crumbs and margarine; press onto bottom of 9-inch springform
  pan. Bake at 350 degrees F., 10 minutes Soften gelatin in water; stir
  over low heat untl dissolved.  Combine cream cheese, sugar, cocoa and
  vinilla, mixing at medium speed on electric mixer until well blended.
  Gradually add gelatin, mixing until blended.  Fold in reamining
  ingredients; pour over crust.  Chill until firm.
 

 

 
      Title: Peppermint Cheesecake
 Categories: Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 c  Chocolate Wafer Crumbs
      3 tb Margarine, Melted
      1    Env. Unflavored Gelatin
    1/4 c  Cold Water
     16 oz SOFT Philly Cream Cheese
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Milk
    1/4 c  Crushed Peppermint Candy
      1 c  Whipping Cream, Whipped
      3 oz Milk Chocolate Candy *
 
  *  Milk chocolate should be milk chocolate candy bars and they shoud
  be
     finely chopped.
  ~---------------------------------------------------------------------
  ~--- Combine crumbs and margarine; press onto bottom of 9-inch
  springform pan. Bake at 350 degrees F., 10 minutes.  Cool. Soften
  gelatin in water; stir over low heat until dissolved.  Combine cream
  cheese and sugar, mixing at medium speed on electric mixer until well
  blended. Gradually add gelatin, milk and peppermint candy, mixing
  until blended, chill until slightly thickened but not set.  Fold in
  whipped cream and chocolate. Pour over crust.  Chill until firm.
  Garnish with additional whipped cream combined with crushed
  peppermint candies, if desired.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Mint Meringue Cheesecake
 Categories: Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 c  Chocolate Wafer Crumbs
      3 tb Margarine, Melted
      2 tb Sugar
     24 oz Cream Cheese, Softened
    2/3 c  Sugar
      3    Large Eggs
      1 c  Mint Chocolate Chips, Melted
      1 ts Vanilla
      3    Large Egg Whites
      7 oz Marshmallow Creme (1 Jr)
 
  Combine crumbs, margarine and sugar; press onto bottom of 9-inch
  spring- form pan.  Bake at 350 degrees F., 10 minutes. Combine cream
  cheese and sugar, mixing at medium speed on electric mixer until well
  blended. Add eggs, one at a time, mixing well after each addition.
  Blend in mint chocolate and vanilla; pour over crust.  Bake at 350
  degrees F., 50 minutes.  Loosen cake from rim of pan; cool before
  removing rim of pan. Chill. Beat egg whites until soft peakes form.
  Gradually add marshmallow creme, beating until stiff peakes form.
  Carefully spread over top of cheesecake to seal. Bake at 450 degrees
  F.; 3 to 4 minutes or until lightly browned.
 

 

 
      Title: Black Forest Cheesecake Delight
 Categories: Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 c  Chocolate Wafer Crumbs
      3 tb Margarine, Melted
     16 oz Cream Cheese Softened
    2/3 c  Sugar
      2    Large Eggs
      6 oz Semi-sweet Chocolate Chips *
    1/4 ts Almond Extract
     21 oz Cherry Pie Filling (1 Cn)
           Frozen Whipped ToppingThawed
 
  *    Chocolate Chips should be melted.
  ~---------------------------------------------------------------------
  ~--- Combine crumbs and margarine, press onto bottom of 9-inch
  springform pan. Bake at 350 degrees F., 10 minutes. Combine cream
  cheese and sugar, mixing at medium speed on electric mixer until well
  blended. Add eggs, one at a time, mixing well after each addition.
  Blend in chocolate and extract; pour over crust.  Bake at 350 degrees
  F., 45 minutes. Loosen cake from rim of pan; cool before removing rim
  of pan. Chill. Top cheesecake with pie filling and whipped topping
  just before serving.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Turtle Cheesecake
 Categories: Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      2 c  Vanilla Wafer Crumbs
      6 tb Margarine, Melted
     14 oz Carmels ( 1 bag)
      5 oz (1 cn) Evaporated Milk
      1 c  Chopped Pecans, Toasted
     16 oz Cream Cheese, Softened
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
      2    Large Eggs
    1/2 c  Semi-sweet Chocolate Chips *
 
  *  Chocolate chips should be melted.
  ~---------------------------------------------------------------------
  ~--- Combine crumbs and margarine, press onto bottom and sides of
  9-inch spring- form pan.  Bake at 350 degrees F., 10 minutes. In 1
  1/2-quart heavy saucepan, melt carmels with milk over low heat,
  stirring frequently, until smooth.  Pour over crust.  Top with
  pecans. Combine cream cheese, sugar and vanila, mixing at medium
  speed on electric mixer until well blended. Add eggs, one at a time,
  mixing well after each addition. Blend in chocolate, pour over
  pecans.  Bake at 350 degrees F., 40 minutes. Loosen cake from rim of
  pan; cool before removing rim of pan. Chill. Garnish with whipped
  cream, additional chopped nuts and maraschino cherries, if desired.
 

 

 
      Title: Brownie Swirl Cheesecake
 Categories: Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      8 oz (1 Pk) Brownie Mix
     16 oz Cream Cheese, Softened
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
      2    Large Eggs
      1 c  Milk Chocolate Chips, Melted
 
  Grease bottom of 9-inch Springform pan.  Prepare basic brownie mix as
  directed on package; pour batter evenly into springform pan.  Bake at
  350 degrees F., 15 minutes. Combine cream cheese, sugar and vanilla,
  mixing at medium speed on electric mixer until well blended. Add
  eggs, one at a time, mixing well after each addition. Pour over
  brownie layer. Spoon chocolate over cream cheese mixture, cut through
  cheese and chocolate mixture several time to acheive a marble effect.
  Bake at 350 degrees F., 35 minutes. Loosen cake from rim of pan; cool
  before removing rim of pan. Chill. Garnish with whipped cream, if
  desired.
 

 

 
      Title: Coconut Choco Cheesecake
 Categories: Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 c  Grham Cracker Crumbs
      3 tb Sugar
      3 tb Margarine, Melted
      2 oz Unsweetened Baking Chocolate
      2 tb Margarine
     16 oz Cream Cheese, Softened
  1 1/4 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
      5    Large Eggs
  1 1/3 c  Flaked Coconut (3.5 oz Can)
      1 c  Sour Cream
      2 tb Sugar
      2 tb Brandy
 
  Combine crumbs, sugar and margarine; press onto bottom of 9-inch
  spring- form pan.  Bake at 350 degrees F., 10 minutes. Melt chocolate
  and margarine over low heat; stirring until smooth.  Combine cream
  cheese, sugar and salt; mixing at medium speed on electric mixer
  until well blended. Add eggs, one at a time, mixing well after each
  addition. Blend in chocolate mixture and coconut; pour over crust.
  Bake at 350 degrees F., 55 to 60 minutes or until set. Combine sour
  cream, sugar and brandy; spread over cheesecake.  Bake at 300 degrees
  F., 5 minutes. Loosen cake from rim of pan; cool before removing rim
  of pan. Chill.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Orange Supreme Cheesecake
 Categories: Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 c  Chocolate Wafer Crumbs
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
      3 tb Margarine, Melted
     32 oz Cream Cheese, Softened
    3/4 c  Sugar
      4    Large Eggs
    1/2 c  Sour Cream
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Semi-sweet Choc. ChipsMelted
      2 tb Orange Flavord Liqueur
    1/2 ts Grated Orange Peel
 
  Combine crumbs, cinnamon and margarine; press onto bottom of 9-inch
  spring- form pan.  Bake at 325 degrees F., 10 minutes. Combine cream
  cheese and sugar, mixing at medium speed on electric mixer until well
  blended. Add eggs, one at a time, mixing well after each addition.
  Blend in sour cream and vanilla.  Blend chocolate into 3 cups batter;
  blend liqueur and pell into remaining batter.  Pour chocolate batter
  over crust. Bate at 350 degrees F., 30 minutes.  Reduce oven
  temperature to 325 degrees F. Spoon remianing batter over chocolate
  batter continue baking 30 minutes more. Loosen cake from rim of pan;
  cool before removing rim of pan. Chill.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Mint Layer Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Mint, Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Mint-Chocolate Chips;Nestles
  1 1/4 c  ;water, divided
  2 1/4 c  Flour; Unbleached
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Baking Soda
    1/2 ts Baking Powder
  1 1/2 c  Brown Sugar; Firmly Packed
    1/2 c  Butter, Softened
      3    Eggs; Large

------------------CHOCOLATE MINT FROSTING-----------------------
    1/2 c  Mint-Chocolate Chips;Nestles
    1/4 c  Butter
      1 ts Vanilla Extract
    1/4 ts Salt
      3 c  Confectioners' Sugar
      6 tb Milk

-------------------------GARNISHES------------------------------
           Chocolate Leaves
           Chocolate Curls
           Chocolate Gratings
 
  CAKE: Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. In a small saucepan, combine
  mint-chocolate chips and 1/4 cup of water.  Cook over medium heat,
  stirring constantly, until chips are melted and mixture is smooth.
  Cool 10 minutes. In medium bowl, combine flour, salt, baking soda,
  and baking powder; set aside.  In a large bowl, combine brown sugar
  and butter; beat until creamy. Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well
  after each addition. Blend in chocolate mixture.  Gradually beat in
  flour mixture alterantely with remaining 1 cup of water.  Pour into 2
  greased and floured 9-inch round baking pans. Bake at 375 degrees F.
  for 25 to 30 minutes, or until cakes test done. Coll completely on
  wire racks.  Fill nd frost with Chocolate Mint Frosting. Garnish as
  desired. CHOCOLATE-MINT FROSTING: Combine over hot (not boiling)
  water, the mint-chocolate chips and butter.
   Stir until chips are melted and mixture is smooth.  Stir in vanilla
  extract and salt.  Transfer to a large bowl.  Gradually beat in the
  confectioners' sugar alternately with milk; beat until smooth.  (if
  necessary add more milk until desired consistency is reached.)
  GARNISHES: Use chocolate curls and grated chocolate on top of the
  cake.  Form a ring of grated chocolate pieces around the outside edge
  and use the curls in the center.  To make chocolate leaves, select
  several small leaves, wash and dry them and paint one side of them
  with melted chocolate.  Chill until firm and peel the leaf off the
  chilled chocolate.  Use as garnish.
 

 

 
      Title: Nutty Chocolate Mint Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Mint, Chocolate
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      7 oz Marshmallow Cream; (1 jar)
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    2/3 c  Evaporated Milk
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/4 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Mint-Chocolate Chips;Nestles
    1/2 c  Chopped Nuts
      1 ts Vanilla Extract
 
  In heavy gauge saucepan, combine marshmallow cream, sugar, evaporated
  milk, butter and salt.  Bring to a FULL ROLLING BOIL over medium
  heat, stirring constantly.  Remove from heat.  Add Mint-Chocolate
  chips; stir until chips are melted and mixture is smooth.  Add nuts
  and vanilla extract. Pour into foil-lined 8-inch square pan.  Chill
  until firm, about 2 hours. Cut into 1-inch squares.
 

 

 
      Title: Minty Mallows
 Categories: Candies, Mint, Chocolate
      Yield: 12 servings
 
     14 oz Sweetened Condensed Milk
  1 1/2 c  Mint-Chocolate Chips;Nestles
      2 c  Marshmallows; Miniature
      1 c  Nuts; Coarsley Chopped
 
  Combine over hot (not boiling) water; sweetened condensed milk and
  mint chocolate chips.  Stir until chips are melted and mixture is
  smooth.  In a large bowl, combine marshmallows and nuts.  Add
  chocolate mixture; mix well.  Spread into a foil-lined 9-inch square
  pan.  Chill until firm, about 20 minutes.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Creme de Mints
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Mint
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 c  Milk Chocolate Chips;Nestles
    1/4 c  Sour Cream
  2 1/2 tb Mint Flavored Liqueur
 
  Melt over hot (not boiling) water, milk chocolate chips; stir until
  smooth. Remove from heat.  Blend in sour cream.  Stir in mint
  flavored liqueur. Transfer to a small bowl.  Chill until thickened,
  about 30 minutes. Fill pastry bag fitted with decorative tip; pipe
  1-inch candies onto foil-lined cookie sheets.  Chill until ready to
  serve.
 

 

 
      Title: English Toffee
 Categories: Candies, Christmas, Gifts
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      2 c  Butter Or Regular Margarine
      2 c  Sugar
      2 tb Light Corn Syrup; Karo
      6 tb Water
      1 c  Almonds; Blanched, Slivered
      6 oz Chocolate Chips; Semi-sweet
      2 tb Vegetable Shortening
    3/4 c  Almonds; Toasted, Sliced
 
  Melt the butter in a heavy 10-inch skillet.  Add the sugar, corn
  syrup, water and 1 cup of almonds.  Cook over medium heat, stirring
  constantly, until the mixture boils.  Continue to coo, stirring
  occasionally, until the mixture reaches the soft crack stage, (290
  degrees F on a candy thermometer).  Pour the mixture into a greased
  17 X 14-inch baking sheet, (jelly roll pan).  Melt the chocolate
  chips with the shortening, over hot water, stirring until smooth.
  Spread on the toffee, which has been scored with a sharp knife in to
  bars.  Sprinkle with 3/4 cup of toasted almonds. When the chocolate
  has set, break apart at the scores and store in a cool place in tins.
  
  Makes 3 lbs of candy.
 

 

 
      Title: Angel Food Candy
 Categories: Candies, Christmas, Gifts, Chocolate
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      2 c  Light Corn Syrup; Karo
      2 c  Brown Sugar; Firmly Packed
      4 ts Baking Soda
      4 oz Semi-Sweet Chocolate; Cut Up
     12 oz Chocolate Chips; 1 Pk
    1/4 c  Butter Or Regular Margarine
           Paraffin; *
 
  NOTE:  The first 4-Oz of semi sweet chocolate is in the block style.
  Also
         the chocolate chips should be semi-sweet. * The paraffin
  should be a 2 1/2 X 3-inch piece that has been cut
  :       up.
  ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  +++
  
  Combine the corn syrup and brown sugar in a 4-quart heavy Dutch oven.
  Cook over medium heat, stirring constantly, until the mixture boils.
  Continue cooking the mixture until it reaches the hard crack stage
  (300 degrees F) on the candy thermometer, stirring occasionally.
  Remove from the heat and carefully stir in the baking soda being
  careful as the mixture will foam up.  Pour the mixture at once in to
  a greased 13 X 9 X 2-inch baking pan. When cool, turn out of the pan.
  Break into pieces using a meat mallet or wooden spoon.  Combine the
  semi-sweet chocolate pieces and the chocolate chips, butter and
  paraffin wax in the top of a double boiler. Place over simmering
  water, stirring until melted.  Remove form the heat, but keep over
  the hot water.  Dip the candy into the chocolate using a large
  cooking fork.  Place on waxed paper lined baking sheets. Let stand
  until chocolate is set.  Store the candy in a cool place in covered
  containers. If you wish, do not coat the candy with the chocolate
  Candy can be stored for several months in the freezer.
  
  Makes 3 pounds of candy.
 

 

 
      Title: Pecan Caramel Clusters
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Christmas, Gifts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 c  Cream; Light
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Light Corn Syrup; Karo
    1/4 ts Salt
      3 tb Butter Or Regular Margarine
    1/2 ts Vanilla
  2 1/2 c  Pecans; Chopped
      6 oz Chocolate Chips; Semi-Sweet
 
  Heat the light cream in a heavy 2-quart saucepan to lukewarm (110
  degrees F.).  Reserve 1/2 c cream and set it aside.  Add the sugar,
  corn syrup and salt to the remaining 1/2 cup of cream in the
  saucepan.  Cook over medium heat, stirring constantly, until the
  mixture boils.  Slow stir in the reserved cream.  Cook, stirring
  constantly, for 5 minutes.  Stir in the butter, 1 tsp at a time,
  stirring constantly.  Cook over low heat, stirring constantly, until
  the mixture reaches the soft ball stage, (234 Degrees F.) on the
  candy thermometer.  Remove from the heat and stir in the vanilla.
  Arrange the pecans on a waxed-paper lined baking sheet. Drop the
  mixture by teaspoonfuls onto the pecans.  As the clusters cool,
  remove with a metal spatula to another waxed-paper lined baking
  sheet.  Push the remaining pecans together and repeat until all of
  the candy mixture is used. If the mixture becomes too thick, heat
  over low heat.  Melt the chocolate chips over hot water and stir
  until smooth.  Spread on the top of each pecan cluster.  Let stand
  until the chocolate is set and store the candies in a cool place.
  
  Makes about 4 dozen.
 

 

 
      Title: Peanut Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas, Gifts
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    2/3 c  Milk
      2 tb Light Corn Syrup
      2 c  Sugar
      2 oz Baking Chocolate; Cut Up
      2 tb Butter Or Regular Margarine
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Peanuts; Salted, Chopped
 
  Combine the milk, corn syrup, sugar and chocolate in a heavy 2-quart
  saucepan.  Cook over medium heat, stirring constantly, until the
  sugar is dissolved.  Continue cooking over medium heat until the
  candy reaches the soft ball stage (236 degrees F) on the candy
  thermometer.  Stir occasionally to prevent sticking.  Remove from the
  heat and add the butter. Cool to 110 degrees F without stirring, then
  add the vanilla. Beat until the fudge begins to lose its shine.  Stir
  in the peanuts and quickly pour into a greased 8-inch square baking
  pan.  Cut into squares when candy is completely cooled.
  
  Makes 1 1/2 pounds
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Covered Peanuts
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Christmas, Gifts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 oz Chocolate Chips; Semi-Sweet
    1/4 c  Light Corn Syrup; Karo
      1 tb Water
      2 c  Peanuts; Salted
 
  Combine the chocolate pieces, corn syrup, and water in a double
  boiler top. Place over hot water and stir until melted.  Remove from
  the heat and stir in the peanuts stirring until well coated.  Drop
  the mixture by teaspoonfuls onto waxed paper lined baking sheets.
  Cover with aluminum foil and chill in the refrigerator until firm.
  
  Makes about 36 pieces.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Christmas Candies
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Christmas, Gifts
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 c  Butter Or Regular Margarine
    1/2 c  Peanut Butter; Cream Style
  2 1/3 c  Graham Cracker Crumbs
      2 c  Confectioners' Sugar; Sifted
      2 c  Flaked Coconut
      1 c  Walnuts; Chopped
      6 oz Chocolate Chips; Semi-Sweet
      1    Paraffin Piece; 2 1/2",CutUp
 
  Combine the peanut butter and butter in a 2-quart saucepan.  Cook,
  over medium heat, stirring constantly, until melted.  Remove from the
  heat. Combine the graham cracker crumbs, confectioners' sugar,
  coconut, and walnuts in a bowl.  Pour the peanut butter mixture over
  all then toss until well blended.  Shape the mixture into 1/2-inch
  balls.  Place on waxed paper lined baking sheets.  Cover with
  aluminum foil.  Chill in the refrigerator. Combine the chocolate
  chips and paraffin in the top of a double boiler. Place over hot
  water and stir until melted.  Dip the balls in the chocolate.  Place
  on waxed paper lined baking sheets and let stand until the chocolate
  is set.  Cover with aluminum foil and store in the refrigerator.
  
  Makes about 2 lbs of candy
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Marble Cake
 Categories: Penndutch, Cakes
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/3 c  Butter
      2    Egg, well beaten
      1 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 c  Flour
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 c  Milk
      1    Chocolate, unsweetened, squa
           -e
      1 tb Butter
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Cream the 1/3 cup butter and sugar together, add the well beaten eggs
  and mix well. Sift flour and baking powder and add alternately with
  the milk to the first mixture. Put 1/3 of mixture into a bowl and add
  the 1 Tbsp of butter and chocolate which have been melted together.
  To the white batter, add the vanilla. Drop white batter, then
  chocolate, by spoonfuls into a well-greased, deep cake pan and bake
  at 350-F about 40 minutes.
  
  Source:  Pennsylvania Dutch Cook Book - Fine Old Recipes, Culinary
  Arts Press, 1936.
 

 

 
      Title: Delicious Fudge
 Categories: Penndutch, Candies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Brown sugar
      1 c  Sugar
    2/3 c  Milk, condensed
      2    Chocolate, unsweetened, squa
           -e
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Corn syrup
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Nuts, chopped
 
  Cut the chocolate in small pieces and cook with the brown and
  granulated sugar, the condensed milk and the corn syrup. Stir until
  the sugar is dissolved. Then cook, stirring occasionally, until the
  fudge forms a soft ball when dropped in cold water. Remove from the
  fire, add the butter and let stand until it is cool. Then beat until
  it begins to lose its glossy appearance. Add the vanilla and the
  nuts, pour on a greased pan and allow to cool. Cut in squares.
  
  Source:  Pennsylvania Dutch Cook Book - Fine Old Recipes, Culinary
  Arts Press, 1936.
 

 

 
      Title: Old Fashioned Caramels
 Categories: Penndutch, Candies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  2 1/2 tb Butter
      2 c  Brown sugar
      2 tb Molasses
    1/2 c  Milk, condensed
      4    Chocolate, unsweetened, squa
           -e
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Nuts, chopped
 
  Melt the butter, add the sugar, molasses and the milk and bring to a
  boil. Cut the chocolate in small pieces and add, stirring constantly
  until the chocolate is melted. Boil until the caramel forms a soft
  ball when dropped in cold water. Add the extract and the nuts and
  pour into a greased pan. Cool a little and when fairly firm, cut in
  squares.
  
  Source:  Pennsylvania Dutch Cook Book - Fine Old Recipes, Culinary
  Arts Press, 1936.
 

 

 
      Title: Mississippi Mud Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter, softened
      3 x  Eggs
    1/2 ts Baking Powder
    1/4 c  +1 /12 T Cocoa
      1 c  Pecans, chopped
      1    Chocolate Frosting
    1/4 c  +2 T Cocoa
      1 ts Vanilla Extract
      1 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  All Purpose Flour
      1    Dash Salt
      1 ts Vanilla Extract
     10 oz Marshmallows
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/4 c  +3 T Warm Milk
     16 oz Powdered Sugar, sifted
 
    Cream butter; gradually add sugar, beating well. Add eggs, one at a
  time, beating well after each addition. Combine flour, baking powder,
  salt, and cocoa; add to creamed mixture. Stir in vanilla and pecans.
    Spoon batter into a greased 13x9x2-inch glass baking pan. Bake at
  325 degrees for 15 to 18 minutes until top is barely soft to the
  touch.
    Remove cake from oven and cover top with marshmallows. Return to
  oven for 2 minutes or until marshmallows are soft. Spread
  marshmallows over cake and immediately cover with Chocolate Frosting.
  Let frosting harden before cutting the cake into squares. Yield: one
  13x9 inch cake. FROSTING: Cream butter; add cocoa, mixing well.
  Gradually beat in powdered sugar, adding warm milk as necessary,
  until spreading consistency. Stir in vanilla. Spread immediately over
  warm marshmallows. Yield: enough for one 13x9 inch cake. Source:
  Southern Heritage CAKES Cookbook
 

 

 
      Title: Pour la France's Fudge Caramel Cake - Express News
 Categories: Cakes, Texas, Desserts, Sauces
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      2    9-inch layers of choc. Cake
      1    Caramel Sauce (Recipe)
      2 c  Heavy Cream
    1/3 c  Light Corn Syrup
      2 ts Butter
    1/3 c  Heavy Cream
      1    Fudge Icing (Recipe)
  1 1/2 c  Cashews, roasted, unsalted
  2 1/2 lb Semisweet Chocolate
      1 c  Brown Sugar, firmly packed
    1/8 ts Salt
 
  FOR CAKE:
     Slice round cake layers horizontally in half to make 4 round cake
  layers.  Place 1 layer on plate and top with Fudge Icing, Caramel
  Sauce and Cashews.  Repeat with next 2 cake layers.  Place final cake
  layer on top, frost top and sides of cake with Fudge Icing and cover
  sides of cake with chopped cashews. FUDGE ICING: Bring cream to boil.
  Stir in chocolate until melted and smooth. This will be very soft but
  will harden when cooled. Refrigerate until workable consistency.
  NOTE: The time it takes to get to a workable consistency depends on
  the weather. This is much like making fudge candy. The author,
  (Arlene Lightsey), made this sauce on a cool, clear day and had no
  problem. CARAMEL SAUCE: Bring first 4 ingredients to boil and reduce
  to thick syrup. Very carefully, (because it will splatter), add
  cream.  Refrigerate until cool. Recipe from Pastry Chef Jenny
  Mattingsley, of Pour la France, 7959 Broadway, San Antonio,
  Texas......
 

 

 
      Title: Pour la France Chocolate Decadence
 Categories: Cakes, Desserts, Texas
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Butter or margarine
      1 tb Granulated sugar
           Whipped Cream
  1 1/3 lb Dark semi-sweet chocolate
      1 tb Unsifted all-purpose flour
           Raspberry Sauce
 
  Recipe from Pour la France Bakery and Cafe,   7959 Broadway, San
  Antonio. Tx Melt butter and chocolate together over very low heat,
  stirring constantly.  Set aside to cool. Whip eggs with electric
  mixer until they reach full volume, approximately 7 minutes.
  Carefully fold in chocolate mixture, sugar and flour. Pour batter in
  10 inch cake pan that has been greased and lined with wax paper or
  parchment paper. Bake in preheated 325 degree oven 30 minutes. Be
  careful not to overbake. Cool completely to room temperature before
  removing from pan. To serve, spoon whipped cream on top of sliced
  Chocolate Decadence. Then top with a spoonful of Raspberry Sauce
  Raspberry Sauce 8 oz fresh or frozen raspberries. (Thaw if frozen)
  Granulated sugar to taste 2 teaspoons liqueur such as Grand Marnier
  or Chambord or dry Marsala. Put all ingredients in small saucepan.
  Bring to boil. Refrigerate until serving time.
 

 

 
      Title: Marshmallow Fudge
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Milk
      2 tb Light Corn Syrup
      2    Square Unsweetened Chocolate
      2 tb Oleo
  2 1/2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/4 ts Salt
     12    Marshmallows
 
  * 6 T of Cocoa may be substituted for the Unsweetened CHocolate
  Squares Heat milk & chocolate together in heavy saucepan over low
  heat until chocolate is melted. Add sugar, salt and corn syrup. Cook,
  stirring until boiling starts. Cover and boil 3 minutes to wash down
  sugar crystals from pan sides. Uncover. Cook without stirring until
  thermometer reaches 232 degrees. Remove from heat and cool without
  stirring to lukewarm. Add vanilla and beat until fudge thickens and
  looses it's gloss. Cut each marshmallow into 8 pieces and stir into
  fudge. Turn into greased pan. Cut into squares when firm. Source:
  Grandmothers Cookbook
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Amaretto Cheesecake
 Categories: Cakes, Desserts, Chocolate
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Chocolate wafer crumbs
      1 c  Blanched almonds, lightly
           Toasted and chopped
    1/3 c  Sugar
      6 tb Butter, softened
     24 oz Cream cheese, softened
      1 c  Sugar
           -  toasted and chopped
    1/3 c  Heavy cream
    1/2 c  Amaretto
      2 ts Vanilla
      4    Eggs
      2 c  Sour cream
      1 tb Sugar
      1 c  Blanched almonds, lightly
 
  ~-------------------------------GARNISH-+-----------------------------
  ~- Preheat oven to 375. Combine crumbs, almonds, sugar and butter.
  Pat mixtur on bottom and sides of a 10 inch springform pan.  cream
  together the cream cheese, sugar, heavy cream, liqueur, and 1 t
  vanilla. Beat in eggs, 1 at a beating well after each addition.  Beat
  mixture until light.  Pour into cru lined pan.  Bake in middle of
  oven for 1 1/2 hours or until top of cake cra and knife inserted in
  middle comes out clean.  Let stand on rack 5 minutes.
   Combine sour cream, 1 t vanilla, and sugar. Mix well and spread
  evenly ove cake.  Bake for 5 more minutes. Place on rack and let cool
  completely. cove lightly with wax paper and let chill overnight.
  When ready to serve, remov sides from pan and garnish with toasted
  almonds around outer edge and on to of cake. Hope this fills the bill.
 

 

 
      Title: Brown Sugar Fudge (Penuche)
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  White Sugar; Granulated
    1/2 c  Heavy (Whipping) Cream
      2 oz Unsweetened Chocolate; 2 Sqs
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Light Brown Sugar; Firm Pack
      3 tb Molasses; *
      4 tb Butter; 1/2 stick
    1/2 c  Chopped Nuts; Optional
 
  *    This is to taste.  The original recipe called for 4 Tbls of
  Molasses, STEP 1:  PREPARE: Prewarm the thermometer in hot water; use
  a 2-quart saucepan; butter the upper sides (inside) of the saucepan;
  measure all ingredients except the vanilla and optionals, and dump
  into the saucepan. Grease and if necessary, line a 5 X 10-inch pan.
  Fill glass with ice cubes and water and the sink with 1/2 inch of
  cold water. STEP 2: Dissolve the sugar, stirring constantly with a
  wooden spoon, over low heat until the butter melts, the gritty sounds
  cease, and the spoon glides smoothly over the bottom of the pan.
  Increase the heat to medium and bring to a boil. STEP 3: Boil, after
  washing down any crystals that may have formed, with a pastry brush
  dipped in hot water from the thermometer bath, using as little water
  as possible. Introduce the prewarmed thermometer. Reduce the heat
  while keeping the fudge at a boil. Stir no more than necessary. STEP
  4: Test the fudge mixture in the ice-cold water when the mixture
  thickens and bubbles become noisy.  Ball, formed in ice water, should
  hold its shape until the heat from your had begins to flatten it and
  should be al dente ~- slightly chewy -- between 230 and 240 (110 and
  115.5 degrees C.). Because of the molasses and brown sugar, it can
  ball at a lower temperature than some other fudges. STEP 5: Shock by
  placing the saucepan in the cold water in the sink. STEP 6: Seed by
  adding, without stirring, the vanilla. Then allow to cool. STEP 7:
  Stir when luke warm and "skin" forms on the top (110 degrees F.(43.5
  degrees C.)). Return the thermometer to its hot water bath to soak
  clean. Stir the fudge thoroughly but not vigorously by hand, with an
  electric mixer, or with a food processor. Pause frequently to allow
  the fudge to react. STEP 8: Watch for the fudge to thicken, lose its
  sheen, and become lighter in color or streaked with lighter shade,
  give off some heat, suddenly stiffen. If mixing by had, the fudge
  will "snap" with each stroke; by mixer, mixer waves will become very
  distinct, by food processor, fudge will flow sluggishly back to the
  center when the processor is stopped. STEP 9: Add the optionals (1/2
  Cup Chopped Nuts (walnuts, pecans, or hazelnuts (filberts)) before
  the fudge totally candies. STEP 10: Pour, score, and store when cool
  in an airtight container in the refrigerator or at room temperature.
  YIELD: 1 pound of fudge. Recipe is easily doubled and can be frozen.
  VARIATIONS: HONEY BROWN SUGAR FUDGE: In Step 1, eleminate the
  unsweetened chocolate and replace the molasses with 1/4 cup of honey.
  The honey causes the fudge to ball at a higher temperature. CHOCOLATE
  HONEY BROWN SUGAR FUDGE:  In Step 1, replace the heavy cream with
  light cream or evaporated milk and replace the molasses with 1/4 cup
  of honey. ORANGE BROWN SUGAR FUDGE:  In Step 1, eleminate molasses,
  chocolate but add 1 Tbl corn syrup.  In Step 6, add 1 Tbl grated
  orange zest, plus if you can get it, 1 tsp of pure orange extract.
  PEANUT BUTTER BROWN SUGAR FUDGE: In Step 1, eliminate the molasses
  and chocolate, replace the heavy cream with 1/4 cup of milk and 1/4
  cup of creamy peanut butter. To intensify the peanut butter flavor,
  add 1/3 of a cup of salted peanuts in Step 9. PRALINE BROWN SUGAR
  FUDGE:  In Step 1, eliminating the molasses is optional -- you'ss get
  a more Southern praline with it, a milder one without it--or
  compromise and use only 1 Tbls.  Eliminate the chocolate. In Step 3,
  when the mixture begins to thicken, add 1 1/2 cups of pecan halves
  slowly so as not to break the boil or cool the mixture too quickly.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Marzipan Slices (Mandulas Szalami)
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      7 oz Almond Paste; 2 tubes
    1/4 c  Almonds; Chopped
      2 oz Semi-Sweet Chocolate; *
           Powdered Sugar
 
  *    Use 2 squares that have been melted and cooled. Mix the almond
  paste, chocolate and almonds thoroughly.  Knead on a surface
  sprinkled with 1 to 2 Tbls of powdered sugar until of a uniform color
  and consistency. Shape into a roll, about 6 inches long; roll in
  powdered sugar. Wrap in plastic wrap; refrigerate at least 12 hours
  and then cut the roll into 1/4-inch slices. Makes about 24 candies
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate cherry cake
 Categories: Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
     18 oz Devil's food cake mix
      1 ts Almond extract
      1 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Milk
     21 oz Cherry pie filling
      2    Eggs, beaten
      5 tb Butter
      6 oz Semisweet chocolate chips
 
  Mix first 4 ingredients by hand with spatula until well-blended.
  Turn into greased, floured 9 X 13 inch baking pan.  Bake at 350 F
  25-30 minutes, or until cake tests done.  Let cool and cut into
  squares before adding icing. To make icing, combine sugar, butter and
  milk in saucepan.  Bring to a boil, stirring constantly, and boil 1
  minute.  Remove from heat and add chocolate chips.  Stir until
  melted.  Pour over cake and spread.
 

 

 
      Title: Spiced Chocolate Applesauce Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Fruits, Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 16 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Flour; Unbleached, Sifted
      2 ts Baking Soda
      1 ts Salt
      2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Buttermilk
    1/2 c  Cocoa; Baking
      1 ts Cinnamon; Ground
    3/4 c  Vegetable Shortening
      2    Eggs; Large
      1 c  Applesauce
    1/3 c  ;Boiling Water

------------------CHOCOLATE FLUFF FROSTING-----------------------
      2 oz Unsweetened Chocolate
    1/4 c  Butter Or Margarine;Softened
      2    Egg Whites; Large
    1/2 c  Confectioners' Sugar; Sifted
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Confectioners' Sugar; Sifted
 
  Sift together flour, baking soda, cinnamon and salt; set aside.  Cream
  together the shortening and sugar in a mixing bowl until light and
  fluffy, using an electric mixer at medium speed.  Add eggs, one at a
  time, beating well after each addition.  Blend in vanilla and
  applesauce.  Add dry ingredients alternately with buttermilk to
  creamed mixture, beating well after each addition.  Beat in boiling
  water. (Batter should be thick.) Pour batter into greased and waxed
  paper-lined 13 x 9 x 2-inch baking pan. Bake in preheated 350 degree
  F. oven for 1 hour or until cake tests done. Cool 10 minutes in pan
  on rack.  Remove from pan; cool on rack.  When cake is cooled, spread
  with Chocolate Fluff Frosting.  Cut in squares.
   CHOCOLATE FLUFF FROSTING: Melt chocolate over hot water. Cool to room
  temperature.  Blend together confectioners' sugar, butter, melted
  chocolate and vanilla in a bowl and beat until smooth. In another
  bowl, beat egg whites until soft peaks form, using an electric mixer
  at high speed. Gradually beat in 1 c sifted confectioners' sugar, 2 T
  at a time, until egg white mixture is glossy and stiff. Fold in
  chocolate mixture into the beaten egg whites.
 

 

 
      Title: West Haven Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes, Fruits, Desserts
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      8 oz Dates; Pitted, Chopped
      1 c  ;Boiling Water
      2 tb Cocoa; Baking
      1 c  Shortening; Vegetable
      2    Eggs; Large
    1/2 c  Walnuts; Chopped
      1 ts Baking Soda
  1 3/4 c  Flour; Unbleached, Sifted
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Sugar
      6 oz Semisweet Chocolate Chips
 
  Combine dates, baking soda, and boiling water in a small bowl.  Cool
  to room terperature.  Sift together the flour, cocoa, and salt; set
  aside. Cream the shortening and sugar together in a mixing bowl until
  light and fluffy, using an electric mixer at medium speed.  Add eggs,
  one at a time, beating well after each addition.  Blend in date
  mixture.  Then stir in dry ingredients.  Pour into a greased 13 x 9 x
  2-inch baking pan.  Bake in preheated 350 degree F. oven for 35
  minutes or until cake tests done. Cool in pan on rack.  Cut into
  squares and serve with a scoop of vanilla ice cream on top.
 

 

 
      Title: Mayonnaise Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      3 c  Flour; Unbleached, Sifted
      3 ts Baking Soda
  1 1/2 c  Mayonnaise Or Salad Dressing
  1 1/2 c  ;Cold Water
    1/3 c  Cocoa; Baking
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla Extract

-----------------FLUFFY CHOCOLATE FROSTING----------------------
      1 c  Brown Sugar; Packed
      3 tb Butter Or Regular Margarine
    1/2 ts Vanilla Extract
      3 tb Half And Half Or Light Cream
    1/3 c  Chocolate Chips; Semisweet
 
  Sift together flour, cocoa, baking soda and salt; set aside.  Combine
  mayonnaise and sugar in a mixing bowl.  Beat with electric mixer at
  medium speed until blended.  Gradually beat in cold water and
  vanilla.  Add dry ingredients to mayonnaise mixutre, beating until
  well blended, about 2 minutes.  Pour batter into greased 13 x 9 x
  2-inch baking pan.  Bake in preheated 350 degree F. oven 40 minutes
  or until cake tests done.  Cool in pan on rack.  Frost with Fluffy
  Chocolate Frosting.  Cut in squares. FLUFFY CHOCOLATE FROSTING:
  Combine brown sugar, light cream, and butter in a saucepan.  Cook
  over medium heat, stirring constantly, until mixture comes to a boil.
  Boil 1 minute. Remove from heat. Stir in chocolate chips and vanilla.
  Beat with electric mixer at high speed until of a spreading
  consistency. NOTE: This recipe is included in this file as it is a
  classic Chocolate Cake and I have looked for the recipe for years
  before finding it.
 

 

 
      Title: Black Magic Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 16 servings
 
  1 3/4 c  Flour; Unbleached, Sifted
    3/4 c  Cocoa; Baking
      1 ts Baking Powder
      2    Eggs; Large
      1 c  Coffee; Black, Strong
      1 ts Vanilla Extract
      2 c  Sugar
      2 ts Baking Soda
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Vegetable Oil
      1 c  Buttermilk

------------------HUNDRED DOLLAR FROSTING-----------------------
    1/4 c  Butter Or Regular Margarine
      1    Egg; Large
      1 tb Vanilla
      1 c  Walnuts; Chopped
      3 oz Semisweet Chocolate;3 blocks
      2 c  Confectioners' Sugar
      1 tb Lemon Juice
 
  Sift together flour, sugar, cocoa, baking soda, baking powder, and
  salt in a mixing bowl.  Add eggs, oil, coffee, buttermilk and
  vanilla.  Beat with an electric mixer set at medium speed for 3
  minutes.  Pour batter into greased 13 x 9 x 2-inch baking pan.  Bake
  in preheated 350 degree oven for 40 minutes or until the cake tests
  done.  Cool in pan on rack. Frost with Hundred Dollar Frosting.  Cut
  into squares. HUNDRED DOLLAR FROSTING: Combine butter and semisweet
  choclolate in a double boiler top.  Place over hot water, stirring
  until melted.  Remove and cool well.  Add egg and stir vigorously.
  Stir in confectioners' sugar, vanilla and lemon juice. Beat until
  smooth.  Stir in walnuts and frost cake with icing.
 

 

 
      Title: Zucchini Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 16 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Flour; Unbleached, Sifted
      1 ts Baking Soda
    1/2 c  Butter Or Regular Margarine
  1 3/4 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla Extract
      2 c  Zucchini; Unpeeled, Grated
    3/4 c  Walnuts; Chopped
    1/4 c  Cocoa; Baking
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Vegetable Oil
      2    Eggs; Large
    1/2 c  Buttermilk
      6 oz Semisweet Chocolate Chips
 
  Sift together flour, cocoa, baking soda and salt; set aside.  Cream
  together the butter, oil, and sugar in a mixing bowl until light and
  fluffy, using an electric mixer at medium speed.  Beat in eggs, one
  at a time, beating well after each addition.  Blend in Vanilla
  Extract.  Add dry ingredients alternately with buttermilk to creamed
  mixture, beating well after each addition.  Stir in zucchini.  Pour
  batter into a greased 13 x 9 x 2-inch baking pan.  Sprinkle with
  chocolate chips and walnuts. Bake in a preheated 325 degree F. oven
  for 55 minutes or until cake tests done. Cool in pan on rack.  Cut
  into squares and serve.
 

 

 
      Title: Red Beet Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Vegetables, Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 16 servings
 
  1 3/4 c  Flour; Unbleached, Sifted
    1/2 ts Salt
      3    Eggs; Large
  1 1/2 c  Beets; Pureed
      1 ts Vanilla Extract
  1 1/2 ts Baking Soda
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Vegetable Oil
      2 oz Unsweetened Chocolate; *
           Confectioners' Sugar; Sifted
 
  *  Melt and cool the 2 1-oz squares of baking chocolate.
  ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  +++ Sift together the flour, baking soda and salt; set aside.
  Combine sugar, eggs, and oil in a mixing bowl.  Beat with an electric
  mixer set at medium speed for 2 minutes.  Beat in the beets, cooled
  chocolate, and vanilla. Gradually add dry ingredients, beating well
  after each addition.  Pour into greased 13 x 9 x 2-inch baking pan.
  Bake in a preheated 350 degree F. oven for 25 minutes or until cake
  tests done.  Cool in pan on rack. Cover and let stand overnight to
  improve flavor.  Sprinkle with confectioners' sugar. NOTE: This is
  similar to a recipe that I had from one of the local cooking shows
  that was sent out to the listeners when the Red food coloring was
  banned. While I have not tried this recipe, I did make the other one
  and it was good. But the other recipe is long gone.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Sauerkraut Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Vegetables, Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 16 servings
 
  2 1/4 c  Flour; Unbleached, Sifted
      1 ts Baking Powder
    1/4 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
    2/3 c  Sauerkaraut; *
    1/2 c  Cocoa; Baking
      1 ts Baking Soda
    2/3 c  Butter Or Regular Margarine
      3    Eggs; Large
      1 c  ; Water

-----------------CREAMY CHOCOLATE FROSTING----------------------
      1 oz Semisweet Chocolate
      1 tb Milk
    1/8 ts Salt
      3 oz Cream Cheese; Softened
      1 c  Confectioners' Sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
 
  *  Sauerkraut should be rinsed and drained thoroughly and then chopped
     coarsely.
  ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  +++ Sift together the flour, cocoa, baking powder, baking soda and
  salt; set aside.  Cream together the butter and sugar in a bowl until
  light and fluffy, using an electric mixer set at medium speed.  Add
  eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition.  Beat in
  vanilla.  Add dry ingredients alternately with water to creamed
  mixture, beating well after each addition.  Stir in sauerkraut.
  Spread batter in greased 13 x 9 x 2-inch bakeing pan.  Bake in a
  preheated 350 degree F. oven for 35 minutes or until cake tests done.
  Cool in pan on rack.  Frost with Creamy Chocolate Frosting.  Cut into
  squares. CREAMY CHOCOLATE FROSTING: Melt chocolate in a custard cup
  in hot water.  Cool slightly.  Combine chocolate, cream cheese, milk,
  confectioners' sugar, salt, and vanilla in a bowl.  Beat with an
  electric mixer at high speed until smooth and creamy. NOTE: This is
  one of those dishes that sound absolutely horrible, but tastes great.
  It is also one of those recipes that is a classic but you can never
  find in most cookbooks.  I have fooled my kids with this as well as
  seen it done on TV.  Everyone thinks that the sauerkraut is coconut.
  So be sure to rinse and drain the sauerkraut several times when you
  make this recipe.
 

 

 
      Title: Sour Cream Chocolate Layer Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 c  Flour; Unbleached, Sifted
  1 1/4 ts Baking Soda
      1 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Sour Cream
      2    Eggs; Large
      4 oz Baking Chocolate
      2 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Baking Powder
    1/4 c  Vegetable Shorteneing
      1 ts Vanilla Extract
      1 c  ;Water

--------------------------FROSTING-------------------------------
    1/3 c  Butter Or Regular Margarine
    1/2 c  Sour Cream
      3 c  Confectioners' sugar
      3 oz Baking Chocolate
 
  Sift togetehr the flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda, and salt
  into a large mixing bowl.  Add shortening, sour cream, vanilla, eggs,
  water and chocolate (melted then cooled).  Beat with an electric
  mixer at low speed, scraping bowl constantly, for 1/2 minute.
  Increase speed to high and beat an additional 3 minutes, scraping
  bowl occasionally.  Pour batter into 2 greased and waxed-paper lined
  9-inch round cake pans.  Bake in a preheated 350 degree F. Oven for
  35 minutes or until cake tests done.  Cool in pans on racks for 10
  minutes.  Remove from pans and cool completely on the racks.  Place
  one cake layer on serving plate.  Spread with Sour Cream / Chocolate
  Frosting.  Top with second cake layer.  Frost sides and top of the
  cake with the remaining Sour Cream/Chocolate Frosting. SOUR
  CREAM/CHOCOLATE FROSTING: Combine the softened butter or margarine,
  confectioners' sugar, and sour cream in a mixing bowl; blend well.
  Add chocolate which has been melted and cooled and vanilla. Beat
  until smooth. NOTE: I have seen reference to people having trouble
  with their layer cakes and how they rise. Try this little trick when
  making this cake. Take the layer that has the least amount of rise on
  the top and trim it to be flat with a sharp knife.  Place the trimmed
  side down (layer should be upside down).  Then frost between layers
  and place the other layer on right side up and finished frosting.  It
  will give the illusion of having a cake with only one domed layer and
  will sit better on your cake plate.  Also the trimmings are great
  eating just plain for the cook or for the kids.
 

 

 
      Title: Egyptian Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  1 3/4 c  Flour; Unbleached, Sifted
      1 ts Cinnamon; Ground
      4 oz Semisweet Chocolate
    1/2 c  Butter Or Regular Margarine
      2    Eggs; Large
    1/2 c  Milk
      2 ts Baking Powder
    1/8 ts Cloves; Ground
    1/2 c  ; Brewed Strong Coffee
      1 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla Extract

-------------------CINNAMON WHIPPED CREAM------------------------
      2 c  Heavy Whipping Cream
      2 ts Vanilla Extract
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Cinnamon; Ground
 
  Sift the flour, baking powder, cinnamon and cloves together; set
  aside. Combine chocolate and coffee in small saucepan.  Cook over low
  heat until the chocolate is melted, stirring constantly.  Remove from
  heat and cool to room temperature.  Cream the butter and sugar
  together in a mixing bowl, until they are light and fluffy.  Use an
  electric mixer set on medium speed.  Add eggs, one at a time, beating
  well after each addition. Beat in vanilla and chocolate mixture.  Add
  dry ingredients alternately with milk to the creamed mixture, beating
  well after each addition.  Pour batter into 2 greased and waxed
  paper-lined 8-inch cake pans.  Bake in a preheated 350 degree F. oven
  for 30 minutes or until cake tests done. Cool in pans on racks for 10
  minutes.  Remove from pans; cool completely on racks. To assemble the
  cake, place one cake layer on serving plate. Spread with Cinnamon
  Whipped Cream.  Top with second cake layer.  Frost sides and top with
  remaining Cinnamon Whipped Cream.  Refrigerate until serving time.
  CINNAMON WHIPPED CREAM: Chill large mixing bowl and beaters. Combine
  cream, sugar, vanilla, and cinnamon and beat with an electric mixer
  set at high speed until soft peaks form and mixture is thick enough
  to spread. DO NOT overbeat or you will have butter instead of whipped
  cream. NOTE: The original recipe came from a GI who found it in Egypt
  when he was stationed there.  Hence the name.  The whipped cream
  frosting was added later but really adds to the recipe.
 

 

 
      Title: Mile-High Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 16 servings
 
    1/2 c  Cocoa; Baking
      2 ts Baking Soda
      2 c  Sugar
      2 ts Vanilla Extract
      1 c  Buttermilk
    1/2 c  ;Hot Water
    1/2 c  Vegetable Shortening
      2    Eggs; Large
  2 1/2 c  Flour; Unbleached, Sifted

-----------------------COCOA FROSTING----------------------------
    1/2 c  Butter Or Regular Margarine
      1 lb Confectioners' Sugar; Sifted
      1 ts Vanilla Extract
      3 tb Milk
      1 oz Baking Chocolate
      1    Egg White; Large
      1 ts Lemon Juice
 
  Combine cocoa, hot water and baking soda in a small bowl.  Let stand
  while mixing other ingredients.  Cream the shoretening and sugar
  together in a mixing bowl, using an electric mixer set on medium
  speed, until light and fluffy.  Add eggs, one at a time, beating well
  after each addition.  Beat in vanilla and cocoa mixture.  Add flour
  alternately with the buttermilk to creamed mixture beating well after
  each addition.  Pour batter into 3 greased and wax paper lined 8-inch
  round cake pans.  Bake in a preheated 350 degree F. oven for 25
  minutes or until cakes test done.  Cool in pans on racks for 10
  minutes.  Remove from pans; cool completely on racks. To assemble
  cake, place one cake layer on serving plate.  Spread with Cocoa
  Icing.  Top with second cake layer and spread a layer of frosting.
  Top with third cake layer and frost sides and top with remaining
  frosting. COCOA ICING: Combine butter, and chocolate in the top of a
  double boiler. Place over hot water; stir until melted. Remove from
  heat; cool to room temperature. Sift confectioners' sugar into a
  large mixing bowl. Make a well in the center and add egg white,
  vanila, and lemon juice. Pour in the chocolate mixture. Blend until
  smooth, using an electric mixer set at medium speed. Add milk to make
  frosting of a spreading consistency.
 

 

 
      Title: Cream Cheese Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Cheese/eggs, Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 c  Cake Flour; Sifted
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Vegetable Shortening
      6 c  Confectioners' Sugar; Sifted
      4 oz Baking Chocolate
      3    Eggs; Large
      1 tb Milk
  1 1/2 ts Baking Soda
      6 oz Cream Cheese
      2 ts Vanilla Extract
    1/4 c  ;Hot Water
    1/4 c  Vegetable Shortening
    3/4 c  Milk
 
  Sift the cake flour, baking soda, and salt together and set aside.
  Combine cream cheese, 1/2 c shortening and vanilla in a large mixing
  bowl.  Beat, with an electric mixer set on high, until light and
  fluffy.  Add confectioners' sugar alternately with hot water and
  chocolate (melted and cooled to room temperature) to cream cheese
  mixture, beating well after each addition.  Blend until smooth.
  Remove 2 cups of the chocolate mixture and cover with plastic wrap.
  Reserve for frosting.  Blend 1/4 cup shortening into remaining
  chocolate mixture.  Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each
  addition.  Add dry ingredients alternately with 1/4 cup of milk,
  beating well after each addition.  Spread batter in 2 greased and
  waxed paper lined 9-inch round cake pans.  Bake in preheated 350
  degree F. oven for 35 minutes or until cakes test done.  Cool in pans
  on racks for 10 minutes.  Remove from pans; cool completely on racks.
  Blend 1 T milk into the reserved chocolate mixture for frosting.
  Place one layer on serving plate and spread with frosting.  Top with
  second layer and frost sides and top with remaining frosting.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Vinegar Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 9 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Flour; Unbleached, Sifted
      3 tb Cocoa; Baking
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Vinegar
      1 c  ;Water
      1 c  Sugar
      1 ts Baking Soda
      1 ts Vanilla Extract
      5 tb Butter Or Regular Margarine

------------------MOCHA CHOCOLATE FROSTING-----------------------
  1 3/4 c  Confectioners' Sugar
      3 tb Butter Or Regular Margarine
    1/2 ts Vanilla Extract
      3 tb Cocoa; Baking
      3 tb Coffee; Brewed, Hot
 
  Sift the flour, sugar, cocoa, baking soda, and salt together into a
  mixing bowl.  Make 3 wells in the dry ingredients.  Pour vanilla into
  1 well; vinegar into 1 well and melted butter into the third.  Pour
  water over all. Beat with a wooden spoon until well blended.  Pour
  batter into a greased 9-inch square baking pan.  Bake in a preheated
  350 degree F. oven for 25 minutes or until cake tests done.  Cool in
  pan on rack.  Frost with Mocha Chocolate Frosting.  Cut into squares.
  MOCHA CHOCOLATE FROSTING: Combine confectioners' sugar, cocoa,
  softened butter, coffee, and vanilla in a mixing bowl.  Beat, with an
  electric mixer set at medium speed, until smooth. NOTE; This recipe
  came from a very old church cookbook that the woman found and is
  typical of many of the recipes of the 1800's. The vinegar was used to
  keep the cake from spoiling. Try this and I think that you will like
  it.
 

 

 
      Title: Marbled Chocolate Cheesecake (Lo Cal)
 Categories: Cakes, Low-cal
      Yield: 10 servings
 
    2/3 c  Skim milk
      1    Envelope unflavoured gelatin
      2    Eggs, separated, room temp.
     12 oz Low fat cottage cheese
    1/4 c  Skim milk
      6 tb Sugar
      2 ts Vanilla extract
      3 tb Unsweetened cocoa

-------------------CHOCOLATE CRUMB CRUST------------------------
    1/2 c  Vanilla wafer crumbs
  1 1/2 tb Butter or marg. melted
      1 tb Unsweetened cocoa
 
  In small saucepan over medium high heat, bring 2/3 cup milk to a
  boil; set aside. In container of blender, sprinkle gelatin over
  remaining 1/4 cup cold skim milk; let stand 4 to 5 minutes. Add
  boiling skim milk; cover and blend at low speed 2 min. Add 3 T sugar,
  egg yolks and vanilla; blend at medium speed until well mixed. Add
  cottage cheese; blend at high speed until smooth. Remove 3/4 c
  mixture to use for marbling; chill until mixture begins to thicken.
  Combine 1 T sugar and cocoa; add to blender container and blend until
  mixed. Pour chocolate mixture into large bowl. Chill, stirring
  occasionally, until mixture mounds when dropped from spoon.
  In small bowl with electric mixer at high speed, beat egg whites until
  foamy. Gradually add remaining 2 T sugar; beat until stiff peaks
  form. Fold beaten whites into chocolate mixture; pour chocolate
  mixture into prepared crust. Spoon large dollops of vanilla mixture
  over chocolate; with knife or spatula, gently swirl to create marbled
  effect. Cover; refrigerate until firm, about 4 to 5 hours. Chocolate
  Crumb Crust In small bowl, combine crumbs and cocoa; add butter and
  stir until evenly blended. Press mixture evenly on bottom of 9 in.
  springform pan.
 

 

 
      Title: Schwarzwalder Kirschtorte (Black Forest Cherry Cake)
 Categories: German, Cakes, Fruits, Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
      6    Eggs; Large
      1 ts Vanilla Extract
      1 c  Flour; Sifted
      1 c  Sugar
      4 oz Unsweetened BakingChocolate*

---------------------------SYRUP--------------------------------
    1/4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Kirsch
    1/3 c  ;Water

--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Confectioners' Sugar
      1    Egg Yolk; Large
    1/3 c  Butter; Unsalted
      2 tb Kirsch Liquer

--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
      2 c  Sour Cherries; Canned, Drain
      1 c  Cream; Heavy, Whipped
      2 tb Confectioners' Sugar
      8 oz Semisweet Chocolate Bar (1)
 
  *  There should be 4 squares of chocolate and it should be melted.
  ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  +++ CAKE: Beat eggs, sugar, and vanilla together until thick and
  fluffy, about 10 minutes. Alternately fold chocolate and flour into
  the egg mixture, ending with flour.  Pour the batter into 3 8-inch
  cake pans that have been well greased and floured.  Bake in a
  preheated 350 degree F. oven for 10 to 15 minutes or until a cake
  tester inserted in the center comes out clean. Cool cakes in pans for
  5 minutes; turn out on racks to cool completely. SYRUP: Make syrup by
  mixing together sugar and water and boiling for 5 minutes. When syrup
  has cooled, stir in kirsch. Prick the cake layers and pour syrup over
  all 3 layers. FILLING: To make the butter-cream filling, beat
  together sugar and butter until well blended. Add egg yolk; beat
  until light and fluffy, about 3 to 5 minutes. Fold in Kirsch. CAKE
  ASSEMBLY: To assemble cake, place 1 layer on a cake plate.  Spread
  with butter cream filling.  Using 3/4 cup of the cherries, which have
  been patted dry, drop cherries evenly over cream.  Place second layer
  on cake.  Repeat.  Place third layer on top.  Fold 2 T confectioners'
  sugar into the whipped cream. Cover the sides and top of the cake
  with whipped cream.  Decorate top of cake with remaining 1/2 cup
  cherries.  To make chocolate curls from chocolate bar, shave (at room
  temperature) with a vegetable peeler. Refrigerate curls until ready
  to use.  Press chocolate curls on sides of cake and sprinkle a few on
  the top.  Chill until serving time.
 

 

 
      Title: Blond Brownies - Beverly's
 Categories: Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
  2 2/3 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 lb Box light brown sugar
      6 oz Pkg chocolate chips
      1 c  Pecans
  2 1/2 ts Baking powder
    2/3 c  Butter
      3    Eggs
      6 oz Pkg butterscotch chips
 
  Sift flour, baking powder and salt together and set aside.  Melt
  butter and brown sugar in saucepan; cool.  When cool, add eggs, one
  at a time. Add flour mixture; add chips and nuts last.  Spread in a
  jelly roll pan; bake at 350 degree for 25-30 minutes.  Do not
  overcook.  Batter is very thick. Cut in squares when cool.
  :       RECIPE CLIPPED by Michael Prothro
 

 

 
      Title: CHAMPAGNE TRUFFLES
 Categories: Candies, Kump
      Yield: 24 servings
 
-----------------------CENTER MIXTURE----------------------------
      8 oz Cream
      1 lb Bittersweet chocolate
      1 oz Butter
      1 oz Cognac

--------------------------ENROBING-------------------------------
      1 lb Bittersweet chocolate
      1 lb Cocoa
 
  It is important to use an excellent quality chocolate when making
  truffles since it is the primary ingredient. Valhrona is my first
  choice and Callebaut is my second.
  
  BRING THE CREAM TO A BOIL and pour it over the cut chocolate. Allow to
  stand 1-to-2 minutes and stir smooth. Beat in the softened butter and
  cool to set. Beat with an electric mixer (using a paddle attachment if
  available) on medium speed until light. Beat in Cognac. Pipe out small
  truffles on parchment or waxed paper with a pastry bag fitted with a
  1/2-inch plain tube. Refrigerate to set. Melt the chocolate. Sift the
  cocoa into a deep pan. Dip the truffles in the melted chocolate and
  then deposit them in the cocoa, shaking the pan to cover them. After
  the covering sets, shake the truffles in a strainer to remove the
  excess cocoa.
  
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 

 

 
      Title: CANDIED GRAPEFRUIT
 Categories: Fruits, Desserts, Candies, Madison
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3    Plump, pink grapefruit,
           - preferably organic
  2 1/2 c  Sugar
  1 1/4 c  Water
      2 tb Corn syrup
           Superfine sugar; for coating
      5 oz Semisweet chocolate
      1 tb Butter
 
  SCORE GRAPEFRUIT INTO QUARTERS and carefully pull off peels or juice
  fruits and cut halves again in half. Place peels in large pan, cover
  them with cold water and bring to boil. Simmer 25 minutes. Remove
  peels and let them cool until they are easy to handle. Hold peels
  firmly against counter and gently scrape away most of white pith just
  below skin. Cut cleaned peels into strips with knife or scissors as
  narrow or wide as you like. In 2-quart saucepan, mix together sugar,
  water and corn syrup. Bring to boil. When syrup is clear, add peels,
  lower heat and cook slowly until peels are translucent, about 1 hour.
  Set cake rack over baking sheet. Remove peels a few at a time and
  spread them out on rack to drain about 15 minutes. While they are
  draining, thickly cover large plate with super- fine sugar. Set
  several pieces at a time in sugar and turn them to coat them. When
  evenly coated, set them aside on another plate or piece of parchment
  paper thinly coated with sugar. This process will need to be done in
  several batches. If sugar become lumpy with beads of syrup, pass it
  through a strainer, then continue using it. Set aside sugared peels
  about 1 hour or until they are dried. Carefully package them in tin
  or plastic container and store either in cupboard or refrigerator. To
  dip peels in chocolate, melt semisweet chocolate over simmering water
  along with butter. Stir well to ensure that mixture is smooth before
  removing from heat. Dip each rind into chocolate, coating most of it
  but leaving a little "handle" to grasp. Or, completely immerse each
  rind in chocolate, then remove with 2 forks or pair of chopsticks.
  Set slices on parchment paper or cake rack and place in cool place to
  harden. Once chocolate has set, pieces can be stored in refrigerator.
  Chocolate will discolor when it cools but will become dark and glossy
  again once brought to room temperature.
  
  Makes 3 Cups
  
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Pecan Pralines - Prudhomme
 Categories: Cajun, Candies
      Yield: 24 servings
 
  1 1/2    Sticks unsalted butter
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  Packed, light brown sugar
      1 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Heavy cream
      1 c  Coarsely chopped pecans
      2 c  Whole pecan halves
      2 tb Vanilla extract
  1 1/2 c  Semisweet chocolate chips
 
  NOTE: Chocolate chips should be chilled.
     Assemble all the ingredients and utensils before starting to cook.
  (Measure out the chocolate chips and keep them refregerated until just
  before needed.)  You will need a large, heavy-bottomed aluminum pot or
  skillet with deep sides, a long-handled metal whisk or spoon, 2 large
  spoons (or an ice cream scoop with a manual release) and a very
  lightly greased cookie sheet. Melt the butter in the pot over high
  heat; add the sugars, milk, cream and chopped pecans.  cook 5
  minutes, whisking constantly.  reduce heat to medium, and continue
  cooking and whisking 10 minutes.
   Add the pecan halves and continue whisking and cooking until done,
  about 8 to 10 minutes.  (If the mixture smokes excessively toward end
  of cooking time, lower thge heat.) Stir in vanilla. then immediately
  drop about 1/4 cup of chocolate chips into about one-sixth of the
  batter. Stir quickly and just enough to cover some of the chips with
  batter but not nenough to allow the chips to melt.  Quickly drop the
  chocolate mixture onto the cookie sheet by heaping spoonfuls, using
  the second spoon to push the batter off the first (or use ice cream
  scoop); each praline should be about 2 inches in diameter and 1/2
  inch thick. repeat with remaining mixture, stirring briefly before
  adding more chocolate chips.  The cooled pralines should be light
  brown, opaque, somewhat chunky and crumbly. LAGNIAPPE: To clean the
  pot and utensils, boil water in the pot with the utensils in it. This
  will melt the batter off. From Paul Prudhomme's Louisiana Kitchen.
 

 

 
      Title: Ritz Pecan Pie
 Categories: Pies, Desserts, Candies
      Yield: 8 servings
 
     20    Ritz Crackers; Crushed *
      1 ts Baking Powder
      3    Egg Whites; Large
      1 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla Extract
    1/2 c  Pecans; Halves
      3 oz Milk Chocolate; Fine Shred
 
  *    Crush Ritz Crackers to crumbs.
  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  ++++++++++++++++++ Preheat oven to 325 degrees F.  Mix cracker crumbs
  and baking powder. Beat egg whites stiff, then very gradually add
  sugar, continiuing to beat. Add vanilla.  Fold egg whites and
  crackers together. Put in a buttered 9-inch pie plate.
   Arrange pecans across top.  Bake 30 minutes.  Remove from oven,
  Sprinkle with shredded chocolate, then put under the broiler for a
  few seconds, watching closely so that the chocolate melts but does
  not scorch.
   Serve with ice cream or whipped cream.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Intemperance
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate, Alcohol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
  1 1/2 lb Semi-sweet chocolate
    1/2 c  Strong coffee
    1/2 c  Tia Maria
    1/2 c  Heavy cream
      2 tb Sugar; separated
      3    Eggs

----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
      1 pk Brownie mix
      2 tb Water
      3    Eggs

----------------------CHOCOLATE GLAZE---------------------------
    1/2 lb Semi-sweet chocolate
    1/3 c  Water
 
  Melt the chocolate with the coffee in the top of a double boiler.
  When the chocolate is completely melted, remove the pan from the
  heat. Beat the egg yolks until pale yellow and stir into the
  chocolate. Gradually stir in the Tia Maria. Cool the mixture. In a
  separate bowl, beat the egg whites gradually adding the sugar, until
  the whites are stiff. Whip the cream. Gently fold the whipped cream
  into the cooled chocolate mixture and then fold in the whites.
   CAKE: Beat ingredients together at medium speed of electric mixer
  until batter is smooth. Grease a 11x15" jelly roll pan. Line it with
  waxed paper. Grease and flour the paper, shaking off any excess
  flour. Spread the batter evenly in the jelly roll pan. Bake for 10-12
  minutes or until the cake tests done. Turn the cake on a rack and
  peel off the paper. Lightly oil a charlotte mold and line with the
  cooled cake. Cut the rounds of cake to fit both the top and the
  bottom of the moldm, and a strip for the sides. Place the smaller
  round in the bottom of the mold. Wrap the strip around the inside of
  the mold. You will probably have to piece one section of the side to
  cover completely. Don't worry the patches will be covered by the
  chocolate glaze. Spoon the chilled filling into the mold. Fit the
  larger round on the top of the filling. Chill for 3-4 hours or until
  firm.
   CHOCOLATE GLAZE:- Melt the chocolate in the water and stir until
  smooth. Spread over the top and sides of the mousse cake and down the
  sides. Chill again. Serve in slender slices, it indecent ly opulent.
 

 

 
      Title: Triple Fudge Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
-------------------SHARON MEHL - CFFM46A------------------------
      1 pk (4oz) Chocolate Pudding
           -not instant
      1 pk Cake mix, devils food
           -(18 1/2 ounce)
    1/2 c  Chocolate pieces, semi-sweet
    1/2 c  Pecans; chopped
      2 c  Milk
 
    Preheat oven to 350 degrees.  Grease and flour 13x9x2" baking pan.
  In large saucepan, cook chocolate pudding as directed on package.
    Blend dry cake mix thoroughly into hot pudding, beating by hand or
  with mixer 1-2 minutes.  Pour into baking pan.
    Sprinkle batter with chocolate pieces and nuts. Bake 30-35 minutes
  or
   until wooden pick inserted in center comes out clean.
    Serve warm or cool. ***This has been my birthday cake ever since I
  was a little girl.  It tastes a lot like a rich brownie!
 

 

 
      Title: S'Mores Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Low-fat, Apples
      Yield: 16 servings
 
    2/3 c  Cake flour
  2 1/2 c  Graham cracker crumbs
      2 ts Baking powder
      1 c  Non-fat milk
    1/2 c  Applesauce
      1 ts Vanilla
      3    Egg whites
    1/4 ts Cream of tartar
    1/2 c  Sugar
      2 c  Miniature marshmallows
    1/4 c  Mini-chocolate chips *
 
   * If you wish to reduce the fat even further, you may leave these
  out.
  
   Lightly butter 2 - 8" round springform cake pans r spray with non-
  stick cooking spray.
  
   Stir together cake flour, graham cracker crumbs and baking powder in
  medium bowl. In another bowl, combine nonat milk, applesauce, and
  vanilla. Add to dry ingredients, stirring just until blended.
  
   Beat eggs whites until frothy.  Add cram of tartar and continue
  beating until thick and foamy. Gradually add sugar, beating until
  soft, smooth peaks form. Fold half into batter until blended. Fold in
  remaining whites until blended. Divide batter into prepared pans,
  spreading evenly. Bake at 350^ 15-20 minutes or until wood pick
  inserted in center comes out clean.
   Sprinkle marshmallows (you may use MORE than directed as they are
  fat-free) and chocolate chips over tops of cakes. Place under broiler
  to brown slightly. Let cool to warm and serve. Makes 2 cakes, about 16
  servings.
  
   Nutritional Analysis:  136 calories, 169 mg. sodium; 1 mg.
  cholesterol; 2 grams fat; 28 grams carbohydrates; 3 grams protein;
  0.20 gram fiber.
   Pat Empson 05/24 11:12 am
         FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 05/24 11:25 AM
  
  TO:      PAT EMPSON   (PFXX29A) FROM: PAT EMPSON (PFXX29A) SUBJECT:
  MM-MORE APPLES
 

 

 
      Title: KNOCK YOU NAKEDS
 Categories: Bar cookies, Chocolate, Candies
      Yield: 20 servings
 
           -Carol Ohler-CHTP96A
      1 pk German chocolate cake mix
      1 c  Chopped nuts
    1/3 c  Evaporated milk
    3/4 c  Butter, melted
     60    Caramel candies
    1/2 c  Evaporated milk
      1 c  Chocolate chips
 
  Combine, and mix well, cake mix, nuts, 1/3 cup milk and butter. Press
  half of this mixture into the bottom of a greased 13x9" Pyrex dish,
  Bake at 350F for 8 minutes. Melt caramel candies in top of a double
  boiler with 1/2 cup of milk. when caramel mixutre is well mixed, pour
  over bakied mixute. Cover with chocolate chips, and pour the rest of
  dough on top of chips. Bake for 18 minutes at 350F. Cool before
  slicing.
 

 

 
      Title: PEANUT BUTTER BUCKEYES
 Categories: Candies, Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  BUTTER
      1 pk 16oz powdered sugar
      1    12oz crunchy peanut butter
      1    Block (4oz) paraffin
      1 pk 12oz semi-sweet chocolate ch
 
  Combine butter, sugar and peanut butter in a medium bowl;blend till
  smooth. Roll into 1 inch balls. chill. Place paraffin and chocolate
  chips into top of a double boiler and melt over hot (not Boiling)
  water. Coat balls by dropping one at a time. Place on waxed paper to
  cool makes 5 dozen
 

 

 
      Title: CHOCOLATE-COVERED CHERRIES
 Categories: Candies, Fruits, Chocolate
      Yield: 60 servings
 
     60    Marachino cherries,w/stem
      3 tb Butter or margarine,softened
      3 tb Light corn syrup
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 c  Confectioner's sugar, sifted
  1 1/2 lb Dipping chocolate or white
           -chocolate ( for coating)
 
  Drain marachino cherries thoroughly, Place on paper toweling. Combine
  butter or margarine, corn syrup and salt. Stir in sifted
  confectioner's sugar. Knead sugar mixture until smooth ( chill if
  mixture is too soft.)
   Shape 1 teaspoon of the sugar mixture around each cherry. Place on a
  waxed-paper-lined baking sheet, chill.
   In a small, heavy saucepan, melt chocolate, stirring constantly. DO
  NOT ADD ANY LIQUID! Holding cherries by stems, dip one at a time into
  chocolate. Spoon chocolate over cherries to coat. Chill until
  chocolate is hardened.
    Store candy in a covered container in a cool place. Let candies
  ripen a week or two. makes 60 chocolate-covered cherries.
 

 

 
      Title: CHOCOLATE PEANUT GOODIES
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Pnut butter
      Yield: 36 servings
 
----------------FAVORITE BRAND NAME RECIPES---------------------

-----------------DUNCAN HINES FABULOUS FALL----------------------

---------------------------BAKING--------------------------------
      1 pk Duncan Hines Milk Chocolate
           -Layer Cake Frosting
    1/2 c  JIF Creamy Peanut Butter
  1 1/2 c  Quick cooking oats
      1 c  Chopped peanuts
     36    Peanut halves, for garnish
 
  1. Combine Milk Chocolate frosting and peanut butter in large bowl.
  stir with wooden spoon until blended. Add oats and peanuts. Stir until
  thoroughly blended, 2. Press candy mixture into ungreased 8-inch
  square pan. Cut into 36 pieces. Garnish tops with peanut halves.
  Store in airtight container in refrigerator.
 

 

 
      Title: CHOCOLATE BRITTLE
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
------------------DENISE BRADSHAW BDGM08B-----------------------
      1 lb Butter
      1 lb Sugar
      1 lb Almonds
      1 lb Walnuts; finely chopped
      1 lb Semi-sweet chocolate
      1 c  Walnuts; whole
 
    In a saucepan cook butter & sugar, boiling 5 minutes. Stir in
  almonds & cook 10-20 minutes or until nuts begin to pop & turn brown.
  Pour into a shallow pan & let cool. Melt chocolate & pour over
  mixture in pan. Sprinkle with finely chopped walnuts. After mixture
  hardens, turn over and sprinkle bottom side with walnuts. Break candy
  into pieces. From "Old Fashioned Christmas Recipes"
 

 

 
      Title: CHOCOLATE TURTLES
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -June James-GNDR31B
      1 lb Caramels
      2 tb Water
    1/2 lb Salted nuts (or pecans)
      1 pk Chocolate chips
 
  Directions:
    Melt caramels in water in the top of a double boilier. arrange nuts
  in clusters on buttered cookie sheet; drop 1 ts caramel on each nut
  cluser. melt chocolate, spread over caramels.
 

 

 
      Title: COCONUT CREAMY BON BONS
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 20 servings
 
    1/2 lb Butter or margerine
     15 oz Eagle-brand milk (1 can)
      8 c  Powdered sugar
     14 oz Flaked coconut
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
      6 oz Semi-sweet dipping chocolate
 
     Mix all but chocolate together and shape into balls about the size
  of a hickory nut. Refrigerate several hours or overnight. Melt
  dipping chocolate in top of double boiler with hot water in the
  bottom pan. This may require more than 6 oz of chocolate.    Dip
  balls into chocolate and turn out onto wax paper-covered cookie
  sheet. Store in a cool dry place. Makes enough to fill a 1-pound tin.
  Source: Newspaper, Newsletter July'89
 

 

 
      Title: BUCKEYES
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 20 servings
 
    1/4 lb Margerine
      1 c  Peanutbutter
    3/4 lb Powdered sugar
      1 lb Dipping chocolate*
 
  Combine ingredients thoroughly. Roll into 1-inch balls and turn onto
  wax paper-covered cookie sheet. May need to let set awhile or chill.
  Melt dipping chocolate (*avail. Sugarcraft) in top of double boiler
  or in microwave on 50%.    Don't have chocolate hotter than 120
  degrees! Drop a ball of candy into chocolate, leave top uncoated.
  With a table fork dipped under the ball, lift it and let the excess
  chocolate run off of it. Place it on the wax paper covered cookie
  sheet, using a toothpick to hold the ball so fork can be removed.
  Store tightly covered in a cool dry place. Will keep 3-6 weeks.
  Source: Sugarcraft
 

 

 
      Title: CARAMEL SNAPPERS
 Categories: Candies, Desserts
      Yield: 30 servings
 
           - Marne Parry PKKW92A
     90    Pecan halves
     28    Vanilla caramels
      2 ts Water
    1/2 c  Semi-sweet chocolate pieces
 
  :       Toast pecan halves by spreading in a single layer in a shallow
  baking pan.  Toast in 350 oven about 10 minutes, stirring
  occasionally. Linea  baking sheet with foil; butter foil. On the
  prepared baking sheet arrange the pecan halves in groups of three,
  placing flat side of pecans down; set aside.
  :       In a heavy 1 quart saucepan combine caramels and water. Cook
  over low heat; stir constantly till caramels are melted and smooth.
  :       Remove saucepan from heat.  Drop about 1 teaspoon caramel
  mixture onto each group of pecans. Let stand about 20 minutes or til
  caramel is firm.
  :       In a small saucepan, heat the chocolate over low heat,
  stirring constantly, til chocolate is melted and smooth. Remvoe
  saucepan from heat. With a narrow metal spatula spread a small amount
  of chocolate over top of each caramel center.  Let stand until firm;
  remove candy from baking sheet. Store tightly covered. Source:
  Brach's candy.
 

 

 
      Title: ROCKY ROAD
 Categories: Candies, Wok
      Yield: 64 servings
 
     12 oz Chocolate;morsels
           ;sweet;  semi-
      2 tb Milk
      2 tb Butter
      3 c  Marshmallows;mini
    3/4 c  Walnut meats;chopped
           ;shelled;
      1 ts Vanilla;extract
 
  Preparation time: 5 minutes Cooking time
  : 5 minutes Measure all ingredients. Butter an 8*8*2-inch square pan.
  Reserve. Place chocolate morsels, milk and butter into wok. Set heat
  control dial at 350 deg.F. Begin stirring immediately. Stir constantly
  until chocolate is melted and milk and butter are incorporated. Stir
  in remaining ingredients. Turn heat control dial to mixture into
  prepared pan. Refrigerate until firm, about 2 hours. Makes 64 (1
  inch) pieces. Note: for easy clean-up, fill wok half full with water,
  bring to a rolling boil and then rinse.
 

 

 
      Title: CREME DE MENTHE SQUARES
 Categories: Candies, Desserts
      Yield: 96 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Unsweetened cocoa powder
  3 1/2 c  Sifted powdered sugar
      1    Egg, beaten
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Graham cracker crumbs
    1/3 c  Green creme de menthe liquer
  1 1/2 c  Semi-sweet chocolate bits
 
  Bottom Layer:  In saucepan combine 1/2 cup of the butter and 1/2 cup
  cocoa powder. heat and stir until well blended. Remove. Add 1/2 cup
  of the powdered sugar, the egg, and vanilla. Stir in graham cracker
  crumbs. Mix well. Press into ungreased 9x13 inch pan.
  
  Middle Layer: Melt 1/2 cup butter. In bowl combine melted butter and
  creme de menthe. At low speed beat in remaining 3 cups of powdered
  sugar until smooth, spread over chocolate. Chill 1 hour.
  
  Top Layer:  In saucepan combine 1/4 cup butter and chocolate bits.
  Stir over low heat until melted. Spread over mint layer. Chill 1 to 2
  hours. Cut into small squares. Stor in refrigerator. Makes about 96
  squares. This one isn't one of "mine", but I have made it and it is a
  pretty holiday treat. I got many compliments on it. Hope you like.
  Paula vcjk47b "1 misplaced yankee!"
 

 

 
      Title: OLD FASHIONED FUDGE
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      2 c  Sugar
    2/3 c  Milk
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Corn syrup
      2 oz Unsweetened chocolate OR
    1/3 c  Cocoa
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 tb Butter
 
  Butter Loaf pan. Combine sugar, milk, and cocoa( or chocolate),
  cornsyrup, and salt in 2 quart saucepan. Cook over medium heat,
  stirring constantly, until chocolate melts and sugar is dissolved.
  Cook, stirring occasioanlly, to 234 F( soft ball stage) Remove from
  heat, add butter. Cool mix to lukewarm(120 F). Add vanilla, and beat
  vigorously and continuously 5 to 10 minutes with wooden spoon ( or
  Mixmaster) Mix will hold its shape when dropped from wooden spoon,
  shine will not be there. Quickly stir in nut( if desired), spread
  quickly and evenly in buttered pan. Cool until firm, cut into
  squares.Makes one pound.
 

 

 
      Title: MICROWAVE FUDGE
 Categories: Candies, Microwave, Chocolate
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      3 c  Semisweet chocolate chips
      1 cn Sweetened condensed milk
    1/4 c  Margarine
      1 c  Chopped walnuts (opt)
 
  Place all ingredients except walnuts in large microwave-safe bowl.
  Microwave on Medium until chips are melted (3-5 minutes), stirring
  once or twice. Stir in nuts. Pour into well-greased square baking
  dish 8x8. Refrigerate until set. Cut into squares.
 

 

 
      Title: TIRAMISU CHEESECAKE
 Categories: Cakes, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           -DOROTHY CROSS   (TMPJ72B)

---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
      2 tb Butter or margarine;melted
    1/2 ts Instant espresso powder
      1 c  Vanilla-wafer crumbs

--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
     24 oz Cream cheese;
           -or Neufchatel cheese Room t
      8 oz Mascarpone cheese
  1 2/3 c  Sugar
      4    Lg eggs; Room Temp.
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      1 pn Salt
      2 ts Instant espresso powder
      1 tb Hot water
      2 tb Brandy
      1 oz Semisweet chocolate;grated
      2 ts Unsweetened cocoa
 
  Crust: Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Butter an 8-inch springform pan.
  Stir in butter and espresso powder in small bowl until combined. Stir
  in crumbs until crumbs are evenly moistened. Pat evenly over bottom
  of prepared pan. Bake 10 minutes. Cool on wire rack. Keep oven on.
  Tightly cover outside bottom and sides or springform pan with
  heavy-duty foil. Filling: Meanwhile, beat cream cheese and mascarpone
  in large mixer bowl at medium-high speed until light and fluffy, 2
  minutes. Gradually beat in sugar, scraping down sides of bowl with
  rubber spatula, until completely smooth, 3 minutes. Reduce speed to
  medium and beat in vanilla and salt. Add eggs, one at a time, beating
  just until blended after each addition. Pour 4 cups filling over
  crust in prepared pan and place in large roasting pan. Dissolve
  espresso in hot water. Fold into remaining filling with brandy and
  grated chocolate. Spoon mixture evenly over filling in pan; smooth
  top with spatula. Place pan on oven rack. Pour enough hot water into
  roasting pan to come 1" up side of springform pan. Bake 1-1/4 hours
  or until center is just set. Remove cheesecake from water bath. Cool
  completely on wire rack. Remove foil. Cover and refrigerate
  overnight. Just before serving, run knife around edge of pan; remove
  sides. Sprinkle lightly with cocoa. Makes 12 servings. Reformatted by
  Joyce Alenskis XMXX58B
 

 

 
      Title: Anytime Cake
 Categories: Ww, Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Pam Courson DWHV03B
    1/2    Med. banana; mashed
      1 pk Chocolate or double fudge
           -Alba 77
      1 tb Flour
      1 pk Sugar twin (not Equal or
           -Sweet n'low)
        ds Molly McButter or other
           -butter flavoring
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      2 dr Rum, almond, or coconut ext.
 
  Mix ingredients well.  Bake in 4" x 4" pan coated with non-stick
  spray at 350 deg. for 15 min.  1 Fr, 1 M, 1/3 B(or 25 opt cal)
  
  Reformatted for MM by Penny Schenck  nfsm70b
 

 

 
      Title: BROWNIES
 Categories: Low-cal, Cakes, Chocolate, Ww
      Yield: 2 servings
 
           -Elaine Radis, BGMB90B
      2    Egg
      1 pk Chocolate alba
    1/2 c  Applesauce
      2 tb Cocoa
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Baking soda
      2 pk Sweet & low
 
  Put all ingredients in a blender and mix well.  Spray 2 mini-loaf
  pans with Pam and pour in batter.  Bake at 350 for 18 min. Don't over
  bake. Should be chewy.
   EACH SERVING: 1P, 1B, 1/2M AND 14 CAL.
 

 

 
      Title: BANANA BUTTERFINGER CAKE - Part 1 of 2
 Categories: Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           -Don Fifield XKGR41A

----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
  2 1/4 c  Cake flour
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Unsalted butter (1 stick)
           -room temperature
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      3 lg Eggs
      1 tb Dark rum
      1 ts Vanilla extract
    3/4 c  Sour cream
      1 ts Baking soda
      2 c  Ripe bananas; mashed (ab.5)
  1 1/4 c  Butterfinger bars; finely
           -chopped (ab. 6 ounces)

---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
    2/3 c  Whipping cream
      7 tb Unsalted butter;cut into
           -large pieces
      1 tb Light corn syrup
     14 oz Semisweet chocolate; chopped
      2 ts Dark rum
      1 ts Vanilla extract
  1 3/4 c  Butterfinger bars; chopped
           -(ab. 7 1/2 ounces)
 
  FOR CAKE: Position rack in top third of oven; preheat to 350 deg.
  Butter two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line
  bottoms with waxed paper rounds. Butter and flour paper.
  
  Sift flour, baking powder and salt into medium bowl. Using electric
  mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually add sugar
  and beat 2 minutes.  Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each
  addition. Beat in dark rum and vanila extract. Combine sour cream and
  baking soda in medium bowl.  Add mashed bananas to sour cream mixture
  and stir until well blended. Add dry ingredients to butter mixture
  alternately w banana mixture, beginning & ending w dry ingredients,
  Stir in chopped Butterfinger bars.
  
  Divide batter between prepared pans.  Bake until center of cake feels
  firm and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 min.
  Cool in pans on rack 10 min. Run small knife around sides of cakes to
  loosen. Turn out cakes onto racks and cool. Peel off waxed paper (Can
  be prepared 1 day ahead.  Wrap cakes tightly and store at room
  temperature.)
 

 

 
      Title: Banana Split Sundaes
 Categories: Ice cream, Desserts
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2 oz Semisweet Chocolate
    1/4 c  Light Corn Syrup
    1/4 c  Sweetened Condensed Milk
    1/4 ts Vanilla
           Ice Cream
      2 tb Unsalted, Roasted Peanuts
      2    Small Bananas, Quartered
 
  Place chocolate in a 2-cup measure.  Micro-cook, uncovered, on 100%
  power for 2 to 3 minutes or till melted, stirring once.  Stir in corn
  syrup, and sweetened condensed milk.  Micor-cook, uncovered, on 100%
  power for 45 seconds to 1 minute or till heated through.  Stir in
  vanilla.  Serve warm atop ice cream.  Sprinkle with peanuts.
  Arranged quartered bananas around ice cream.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Mint Sticks
 Categories: Desserts, Cookies
      Yield: 40 servings
 
---------------------------COOKIE--------------------------------
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Melted butter
      1 c  Sugar
      2 oz Unsweetened chocolate melted
    1/2 ts Peppermint extract
    1/2 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Ground almonds

---------------------PEPPERMINT FILLING--------------------------
      2 tb Butter
      1 tb Heavy cream
      1 c  Confectioners sugar (sifted)
      1 ts Peppermint extract

--------------------------FROSTING-------------------------------
      1 oz Semi-sweet chocolate
      1 tb Butter
 
  1. Preheat oven to 350. Grease a 9 inch square baking pan. Beat eggs.
  Add melted butter and sugar. Beat well. Add melted chocolate and
  peppermint. Beat. Add flour and nuts. Mix well. Pour ingredients into
  prepared pan and bake 25-30 minutes until toothpick inserted in
  center comes out clean. Remove from oven and set on trivet or rack to
  cool.
  
  2. Prepare filling. In small bowl, thoroughly blend butter and cream.
  Add sugar and peppermint. Mix well. Spread evenly over cooled baked
  layer.
  
  3. Prepare frosting. Melt chocolate and butter together in small pan
  over low heat.
  
  4. When filling is completely firm, spread frosting mixture on top.
  
  5 . Refrigerate until chocolate is firm. Cut into 3/4 by 2 1/4 inch
  strips.
  
  from: _Cookiemania_
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Munchies
 Categories: Desserts, Cookies
      Yield: 48 servings
 
      1 c  Semi-sweet chocolate chips
      8    Marshmallows
      1 tb Water
    3/4 c  Sifted flour
    1/2 c  Sugar
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Baking sodaa
    1/2 c  Softened butter
    1/3 c  Packed brown sugar
      1    Egg
      2 ts Almond extract
    1/2 ts Vanilla
  1 1/4 c  Quick cooking oats
      1 c  Chopped pecans
 
  1.  Preheat oven to 350.  Grease cookie sheet.  Melt chocolate chips
  in top of double boiler over hot water.  Add marshmallows and water.
  Stir until melted.  Remove from heat and set aside. 2. Sift together
  already sifted flour, sugar, salt and baking soda. Slowly blend
  butter, brown sugar, egg, almond extract and vanilla into sifted
  ingredients. Mix well. Stir oats, pecans and melted chocolate into
  batter. Blend thoroughly. 3. Drop dough by teaspoonfuls, 2 inches
  apart onto prepared cookie sheet.
   Bake 12-15 minutes.  Remove from cookie sheet immediately and cool an
  rack. shake off excess Bits 'o Brickle.from: _Cookiemania_ from:
  _Cookiemania_
 

 

 
      Title: Toffee chip squares
 Categories: Desserts, Cookies
      Yield: 96 servings
 
---------------------------COOKIE--------------------------------
      1 c  Butter
      3 c  Brown sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
  2 3/4 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder

--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
      6 oz Semi-sweet chocolate chips
      3 tb Butter
      1 tb Water
           Bits 'o brickle baking chips
 
  1. Preheat oven to 350. Cream butter. Add brown sugar and vanilla. Mix
  well. Add flour an baking powder and mix until well blended.
  
  2. Pat evenly into ungreased 9 x 13 baking pan. Press down flat. Bake
  10-15 minutes until golden. Remove from oven and cut while warm into
  triangles, cut from 2 inch squares.
  
  3. Prepare topping. Melt chocolate chips, butter and water in top of
  double boiler over hot water. Stir until smooth. Remove top of double
  boiler from hot water. Let chocolate thicken a little and then drop a
  large dollop in the center of each square or triangle.
  
  4. Sprinkle Bits 'o Brickle chips on top of wet chocolate, heavily.
  Refrigerate to set. Remove squares with spatula and shake off excess
  Bits 'o Brickle.
  
  from: _Cookiemania_
 

 

 
      Title: Mocha Cookies
 Categories: Desserts, Cookies
      Yield: 36 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter
    3/4 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Packed brown sugar
      1    Egg
  1 1/2 c  Flour
      2 tb In. coff. powder No crystals
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      2 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Finely chopped walnuts
     12 oz Semi-sweet chocolate chips
 
  1. Preheat oven to 350. Cream butter. Add both sugars and beat well.
  Add egg and mix well. Add flour, coffee powder, baking powder, salt,
  cinnamon, vanilla, and 1/2 c walnuts. Mix well. Wrap dough in wax
  paper and chill thouroughly in refrigerator (at least two hours).
  
  2. Remove dough from refrigerator. Using rounded teaspoonfuls of
  dough, shape into balls using palms of hands and place 2 inches apart
  on an ungreased cookie sheet. Bake 12-15 minutes.
  
  3. Remove cookie sheet from oven and working quickly place 3-4
  chocolate chips in the center of each hot cookie. When chocolate has
  softened, spread over top and sprinkle with balance of walnuts.
  Remove to wire rack and cool. from: _Cookiemania_
 

 

 
      Title: Peanut butter chip cookies
 Categories: Desserts, Cookies
      Yield: 48 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter softened
    3/4 c  Packed brown sugar
    1/2 c  Chunky peanut butter
      2    Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 c  Salted peanuts
      6 oz Semi-sweet chocolate chips
      6 oz (or) butterscotch chips
 
  1.  Preheat oven to 350.  Cream butter and brown sugar until light and
  fluffy.  Add peanut butter and eggs.  Mix well.  Stir in flour and
  baking soda and blend well.  Add peanuts and chips.  Mix just until
  blended. 2. Drop by rounded teaspoonfuls two inches apart onto
  ungreased cookie sheet. 3.  Bake 9-12 minutes or until golden brown.
  Remove right away from cookie sheet and cool on wire rack. from:
  _Cookiemania_
 

 

 
      Title: Dip and sprinkle
 Categories: Desserts, Cookies
      Yield: 60 servings
 
---------------------------COOKIE--------------------------------
  2 1/3 c  Sifted flour
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Butter softened
    2/3 c  Sugar
      1    Egg yolk
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Finely ground almonds

-----------------CHOCOLATE DIPPING MIXTURE----------------------
      6 oz Semi-sweet chocolate chips
      3 tb Butter
      1 tb Hot water
           Choc. or candy sprinkles
 
  1.  Sift already sifted flour with salt and set aside.  In large bowl,
  cream butter with electric mixer at medium speed.  Add sugar, egg
  yolk, and vanilla.  Beat until light and fluffy.  Gradually add flour
  and salt mixture and almonds, mixing until well blended. 2. Shape
  dough into two logs, each 1 1/2 inches in diameter, and wrap in wax
  paper. Refrigerate until firm, at least two hours. 3. Preheat oven to
  350. Lightly grease a cookie sheet.  Using a ruler, mark each log at
  1/4 inch intervals. With a sharp thin knife, cut into slices and put
  onto prepared cookie sheet, one inch apart. 4. Bake 8-10 minutes or
  until lightly browned. Remove from cookie sheet and cool on rack. 5.
  Prepare chocolate mixture. In top of double boiler, over hot water,
  melt chocolate chips and butter. Stir in hot water. 6. Lay sheet of
  wax paper on table. Dip half of each cookie into hot chocolate
  mixture and put on wax paper. 7. If using sprinkles, dip a few
  cookies and then sprinkle while chocolate is still wet. Let dry at
  least one hour. from: _Cookiemania_
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Mint Pinwheels
 Categories: Chocolate, Mint, Cookies, Desserts
      Yield: 10 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Chocolate Mint Chips; *
    3/4 c  Butter; Softened
    1/3 c  Sugar
      1    Egg; Large
      1 ts Vanilla Extract
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  *  One 10-oz package of Nestle Toll House Mint-Chocolate Morsels;
  divided.
  ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  +++ Melt, over hot (not boiling) water, 1/2 cup mint-chocolate chips,
  stir until smooth.  Cool to room temperature, set aside.  In a large
  bowl, combine butter and sugar; beat until creamy.  Add egg and
  vanilla extract, blend well.  Gradually beat in flour and salt.
  Place 1 cup of dough in a small bowl.  Add melted chips; blend
  thoroughly.  Shape into a ball, flatten, (mixture will appear
  curdled).  Cover with plastic wrap. Shape remaining dough into ball;
  flatten.  Cover with plastic wrap.  Chill until firm, about 1 1/2
  hours).  Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.  Between sheets of waxed
  paper, roll each ball of dough into a 13 x 9-inch rectangle. Remove
  top layers of waxed paper and invert the chocolate dough onto the
  plain dough.  Peel off waxed paper.  Starting from the long side,
  roll up jelly roll stype.  Cut into 1/4-inch slices; place on
  ungreased cookie sheet.  Bake at 375 degrees F. for 7 to 8 minutes.
  Cool completely on wire racks.  Melt over hot, (not boiling), water
  remaining 1 cup of chips; stir until smooth.  Spread flat side of
  cookie with 1/2 slightly rounded teaspoonful melted chocolate.  Chill
  until set.
 

 

 
      Title: Minty Fudge Brownies
 Categories: Chocolate, Mint, Cookies, Desserts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  Flour; Unbleached
    1/2 ts Baking Soda
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Butter
      3 tb ;Water
  1 1/2 c  Mint-Chocolate Chips; *
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla Extract
      3    Eggs; Large
      1 c  Nuts; Chopped
           Walnut Halves; Optional
 
  *  Chips should be 1 bag (10 oz) of Mint-Chocolate Chips from Nestles.
  ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  +++ Preheat oven to 325 degrees F.  In a small bowl, combine flour,
  baking soda, and salt; set aside.  In medium saucepan, combine sugar,
  butter and water; bring JUST TO A BOIL.  Remove from heat.  Add
  mint-chocolate chips and vanilla extract; stir until chips are melted
  and mixture is smooth. Transfer to a large bowl.  Add eggs, 1 at a
  time, beating well after each addition.  Gradually blend in flour
  mixture.  Stir in nuts.  Spread into a greased 13 X 9 X 2-inch baking
  pan.  Bake at 324 degrees F for 30 to 35 minutes.  Cool completely on
  wire rack, cut into 1 1/2-inch squares. Garnish with walnut halves,
  if desired.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Mint Cookies
 Categories: Cookies, Chocolate, Mint, Desserts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Mint Chocolate Chips; *
      1 c  Flour; Unbleached
    3/4 ts Baking Powder
    1/4 ts Baking Soda
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Butter; Softened
      6 tb Sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla Extract
      1    Egg; Large

---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
      1 c  Mint Chocolate Chips; *
    1/4 c  Vegetable Shortening
      3 tb Corn Syrup
  2 1/4 ts ;Water
 
  *  This should be 1 10-oz bag Of Nestles Toll House Mint Chocolate
  chips;
     divided into 1 cup and 1/2 cup.
  ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  ++ COOKIES: Melt over hot (not boiling) water, 1/2 cup mint chocolate
  chips; stir until smooth. Set aside. In a small bowl, combine the
  flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt; set aside.  In a large
  bowl, combine butter, sugar and vanilla extract; beat until creamy.
  Beat in egg; blend in melted chips.  Gradually beat in the flour
  mixture. Shape dough into a ball and wrap in waxed paper.  Chill
  about 1 hour.  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. On a lightly floured
  board, roll dough to 1/16-inch thickness. Cut with a 2-inch cookie
  cutter.  Reroll remaining dough and cut out cookies again. Place on
  ungreased cookie sheets.  Bake at 350 degrees F. for 8 to 10 minutes.
  Cool completely on wire racks. GLAZE: Combine over hot (not
  boiling)water the remaining mint chocolate chips, vegetable
  shortening, corn syrup, and water; stir until morsels are melted and
  mixture is smooth. Remove from heat but keep mixture over hot water.
  Dip 1/2 of each cookie into glaze; shake off any excess glaze.  Place
  cookies on waxed paper line cookie sheets.  Chill until glaze sets
  (about 10 minutes). Keep refrigerated until ready to use.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Mint Meltaways
 Categories: Cookies, Chocolate, Mint, Desserts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Mint-Chocolate Chips; *
    3/4 c  Butter; Softened
    1/2 c  Confectioners' Sugar; Sifted
      1    Egg Yolk; Large
  1 1/4 c  Flour; Unbleached

---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
    1/2 c  Mint Chocolate Chips; *
  1 1/2 tb Vegetable Shortening
      2 tb Almonds; Toasted, Chopped
 
  *  Use 1 10-oz bag of Nestles Mint-Chocolate Chips and divide into 1
  cup
     and 1/2 cup.
  ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  +++ COOKIES: Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Melt over hot (not
  boiling) water, 1 cup of mint chocolate chips; stir until smooth. Set
  aside. In a large bowl, combine butter, confectioners' sugar, and egg
  yolk. Beat until creamy. Add melted chips and flour; beat until well
  blended. Drop by heaping teaspoonfuls onto ungreased cookie sheets.
  Bake at 350 degrees F. for 8 to 10 minutes. Allow to stand for 3
  minutes before removing from cookie sheets. Cool completely on wire
  racks. GLAZE: Combine over hot (not boiling) water the remaining 1/2
  cup of mint-chocolate chips and vegetable shortening.  Stir until
  chips are melted and mixture is smooth. Drizzle each cookie with 1/2
  t of the glaze; sprinkle with almonds. Chill until set.  Stor in
  airtight container in the refrigerator.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Mint Sugar Cookie Drops
 Categories: Mint, Chocolate, Cookies, Desserts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Flour; Unbleached
  1 1/2 ts Baking Powder
    3/4 ts Salt
  1 1/4 c  Sugar; Divided
    3/4 c  Vegetable Oil
      2    Eggs; Large
      1 ts Vanilla Extract
  1 1/2 c  Mint-Chocolate Chips; *
 
  *  Use 1 10-oz bag of Nestles Mint-Chocolate Chips in this recipe.
  ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  +++ In medium bowl, combine flour, baking powder and salt; set aside.
  In a large bowl, combine 1 cup sugar and vegetable oil; mix well.
  Beat in eggs and vanilla extract.  Gradually beat in the flour
  mixture.  Stir in Mint-Chocolate chips.  Shape into balls using
  rounded teaspoonfuls of dough; roll in remaining 1/4 cup of sugar.
  Place on ungreased cookie sheets.  Bake at 350 degrees F. for 8 to 10
  minutes.  Cool completely on wire racks.
 

 

 
      Title: Double Chocolate Mint Chip Cookies
 Categories: Mint, Chocolate, Cookies, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Mint-Chocolate Chips; *
  1 1/4 c  Flour; Unbleached
    3/4 ts Baking Soda
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Butter; Softened
    1/2 c  Brown Sugar; Firmly Packed
    1/4 c  Sugar; Granulated
    1/2 ts Vanilla Extract
      1    Egg; Large
    1/2 c  Nuts; Chopped
 
  *  Use 1 10-oz bag of Nestles Toll House Mint-Chocolate Chips divided
  in
     half for this recipe.
  ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  +++ Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.  Melt over hot (not boiling)
  water, 3/4 cup of the mint-chocolate chips; stir until smooth.
  Remove from heat; cool to room temperature.  In a small bowl, combine
  flour, baking soda and salt; set aside.  In a large bowl, combine
  butter, brown sugar, sugar, and vanilla extract; beat until creamy.
  Add melted chips and egg; beat well. Gradually blend in the flour
  mixture.  Stir in remaining 3/4 cup of mint-chocolate chips and nuts.
  Drop by rounded tablespoonfuls onto ungreased cookie sheets.  Bake at
  375 degrees F. for 8 to 10 minutes. Allow to stand 2 to 3 minutes;
  remove from cookie sheets.  Cool completely on wire racks.
 

 

 
      Title: Minty Mousse Pie Au Chocolat
 Categories: Mint, Chocolate, Pies, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 tb Sugar; Divided
      2 tb Cornstarch; AND
      2 ts Cornstarch
      1 c  Mint-Chocolate Chips; *
  1 1/2 c  Milk
      1 c  Cream; Heavy
      1    Graham Cracker Crust; 9" **
 
  *    Use Nestles mint-chocolate chips in this recipe.  2/3 rds of a
  10 oz
       bag. ** Use a prepared 9-inch graham cracker crust in this
  recipe, or if
       desired use your own favorite cracker crust.
  ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  +++ In medium heavy guage saucepan, combine 4 T sugar, cornstarch, and
  mint-chocolate chips.  Gradually stir in milk.  Cook, stirring
  constantly, over medium heat until mixute BOILS. BOIL 1 MINUTE;
  remove from heat. Transfer to a large bowl; cover surface of
  chocolate mixture with plastic wrap.  Cool to room temperature (20 to
  30 minutes).  In a medium bowl, combine heavy cream with remaining 2
  T sugar; beat until stiff.  Remove plastic wrap from chocolate; beat
  well.  Fold in whipped cream.  Spoon into crust.  Chill until firm
  (about 2 to 3 hours).
 

 

 
      Title: Kahlua Brownies
 Categories: Cookies, Desserts
      Yield: 24 servings
 
--------------------------BROWNIE-------------------------------
      2 oz Chocolate, unsweetened
    1/4 c  Butter
      1 c  Flour, all purpose
      1 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs; well beaten
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 tb Coffee, instant crystals
      2 tb Kahlua
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Baking powder

---------------------------ICING--------------------------------
      2 oz Chocolate, unsweetened; chpd
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      7 tb Milk
    1/4 c  Butter
      1 tb Corn syrup, light
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla

--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
      6 oz Chocolate chips, semi-sweet
 
  BROWNIES: Melt chocolate and butter in top of double boiler. Remove
  from heat and mix thoroughly with all other ingredients. Pour into a
  buttered 8" square pan. Bake in a preheated 350 F oven for 30
  minutes.  Cool in pan.
  
  ICING: Mix all ingredients in sauce pan and bring to a boil, stirring
  constantly. Boil 1 minute and remove from heat. When cool, add
  vanilla. Sprinkle icing over cooled brownie base and sprinkle with
  chocolate chips.
 

 

 
      Title: Peanut Butter Bars
 Categories: Christmas, Cookies, Gifts, Chocolate
      Yield: 12 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter Or Regular Margarine
    1/2 c  Brown Sugar; Firmly Packed
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1    Egg; Lg
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/3 c  Peanut Butter, Crunchy Style
      1 c  Unbleached Flour; Sifted
    1/2 ts Baking Soda
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Oats; Quick Cooking
      1 c  Chocolate Chips; Semi-Sweet

-----------------------VANILLA GLAZE----------------------------
    1/4 c  Confectioners' Sugar
    1/4 c  Peanut Butter
      2 tb Butter Or Margarine
    1/4 c  Milk; Hot
    1/2 ts Vanilla
 
  Cream the butter, brown sugar, and sugar in a mixing bowl until light
  and fluffy, using an electric mixer at medium speed.  Beat in the egg
  and vanilla.  Blend in the peanut butter.  Sift the flour, baking
  soda and salt together.  Stir the dry ingredients into the creamed
  mixture, blending well.  Stir in the oats.  Spread the mixture in a
  greased 13 X 9 X 2-inch baking pan.  Sprinkle with the chocolate
  chips.  Bake in a 350 degree F. oven for 25 minutes or until done.
  Cool in the pan on a rack. While still warm drizzle with the vanilla
  glaze.  When cooled, cut into 48 (2 X 1 1/2-inch) bars.
  
  VANILLA GLAZE:
  
  Combine all of the ingredients in a bowl and beat, with an electric
  mixer set to high speed, until smooth.
 

 

 
      Title: Black Bottom Pie
 Categories: Desserts, Pies, Londontowne
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 tb Cornstarch
      2 c  Scalded milk
    1/4 c  Cold water
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
      4    Egg whites
      1    9" baked pastry shell
      1 tb Unflavored gelatin
      4    Egg yolks, beaten
      1 ts Vanilla
      6 oz Semi-sweet chocolate bits
    1/2 c  Sugar
 
  Combine cornstarch & 1/2 c sugar. Slowly add milk to egg yolks, then
  stir into sugar & cornstarch mixture. Cook in double boiler, stirring
  constantly, until it coats spoon. Remove from heat, add vanilla.
  Remove one cup of this custard mixture and stir in chocolate bits
  until melted. Pour chocolate mixture inyo pastry shell & chill.
  Soften gelatin in water and add to remaining hot custard; stir until
  gelatin is dissolved. Add flavoring. Chill until slightly thickened.
  Beat eggs whites until soft peaks form. Gradually add remaining sugar
  while beating, until stiff. Fold custard/gelatin into egg whites and
  pile over chocolate layer in pie shell. Chill until set and garnish
  with chopped walnuts. Mrs. Henry D. Chaplin
 

 

 
      Title: ROCKY ROAD FUDGE BARS
 Categories: Desserts, Cookies
      Yield: 36 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Walnuts, chopped
      1 ts Vanilla
      6 oz Cream cheese
      2 tb Flour
      1    Eggs
    1/4 c  Walnuts, chopped
      2 c  Marshmallow miniatures
      1 oz Unsweetened chocolate
    1/4 c  Milk
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 oz Unsweetened chocolate
      1 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking powder
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      6 oz Semi-sweet chocolate bits
    1/4 c  Butter
      2 oz Cream cheese
      3 c  Powdered sugar
 
  BROWNIES: Grease and flour a 13x9 in. pan. Melt 1/2 c. butter and one
  square chocolate. Add 1 c. sugar, 1 c. flour, 1/2 c. nuts, 1 t. baking
  powder, 1 t. vanilla and 2 eggs. Mix well and spread in pan. FILLING:
  Combine 6 oz. cream cheese, 1/2 c. sugar, 2 T. flour, 1/4 c. softened
  butter, 1 egg and 1/2 t. vanilla. Beat one minute on medium until
  smooth and fluffy. Stir in 1/4c. nuts. Spread over chocolate mixture.
  Sprinkle with chocolate bits. Bake in preheated 350 degree oven 25 to
  35 min. (use toothpick test). Remove from oven, sprinkle with
  marshmallows, and bake 2 more minutes. TOPPING: Melt 1/4 c. butter, 1
  square chocolate, 2 oz. cream cheese and milk. Stir in powdered sugar
  and 1 t. vanilla until smooth. Pour over bars and swirl with a spoon.
  Cool and cut into bars. Store in refrigerator.
 

 

 
      Title: Peanut Butter Pie
 Categories: Pies, Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      8 oz Cream Cheese
     16 oz Whipped Topping
      2    9-in Graham Cracker Crusts
      1 c  Crunchy Peanut Butter
  1 1/2 c  Sifted Powdered Sugar
           Garnish: chocolate shavings
 
  Combine cream cheese and peanut butter in a large mixing bowl; beat at
  medium speed of an electric mixer until light and fluffy. Gradually
  add whipped topping and powdered sugar, and continue beating until
  smooth. Spoon filling into prepared crusts. Cover and freeze at least
  8 hours. Garnish, if desired. Source: Special Holiday Issue; Southern
  Living; Home For The Holidays, '89
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Peanut Butter Pie
 Categories: Desserts, Pies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/3 c  Semi-sweet Chocolate Chips
      1 tb Water
    1/3 c  Sugar
      3 tb Water
      2    Egg Whites; Lg
      1 ts Vanilla
     14    PeanutButterSandwichCookies
      1 tb Light Corn Syrup
    1/3 c  Creamy Peanut Butter
      3 tb Light Corn Syrup
    1/4 c  Peanuts; Chopped
      2 tb Sugar
      1 c  Heavy Cream; Whipped
      3 tb Butter Or Regular Margarine
 
  ~----------------------PEANUT BUTTER COOKIE
  CRUST------------------------- Prepare the Peanut Butter Cookie Crust
  and set aside. Combine the chocolate chips, 1 tb of light corn syrup
  and 1 tb of water in the top of a double boiler.  Cook over simmering
  water until the chocolate melts and the mixture is smooth.  Remove
  from the heat and cool well. Meanwhile combine the peanut butter, 1/3
  cup of sugar, 3 tb of corn syrup, and 3 tb of water in a 2-qt
  saucepan.  Cook over medium heat, stirring constantly until the sugar
  is dissolved and the mixture is well blended. Pour into a bowl and
  stir in the peanuts; cool.  Beat the egg whites until foamy, using an
  electric mixer at high speed.  Gradually add 2 tb of sugar, 1 tb at a
  time, beating well after each addition.  Beat in the vanilla and
  continue beating until stiff, glossy peaks form when the beaters are
  slowly lifted. Fold the egg white mixture into the whipped cream.
  Then fold in the peanut butter mixture.  Pour half of the peanut
  butter mixture into the peanut butter cookie crust.  Drizzle half of
  the chocolate mixture over the filling. Top with the remaining
  filling. Drizzle the remaining chocolate in parallel lines over the
  filling.  Pull a knife across the lines at 1 inch intervals. Freeze
  until firm.  Wrap securely in aluminum foil. Return to the freezer
  and continue freezing 8 hours or overnight. Remove from the freezer
  10 minutes before serving. PEANUT BUTTER COOKIE CRUST: Crush the
  cookies and melt the butter or margarine.  Combine them and mix well.
  Press the crumb mixture into the bottom and up the sides of a 9-inch
  pie plate. Chill in the refrigerator until set.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Chip-Pecan Pie
 Categories: Chocolate, Desserts, Pies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Semi-Sweet Chocolate Chips
      2    Eggs; Lg
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
      1    Unbaked 8-inch Pie Shell
    3/4 c  Dark Corn Syrup
    1/4 c  Butter Or Regular Margarine
    3/4 c  Pecan Halves
 
  Melt the butter or regular margarine and set aside.  Sprinkle the
  chocolate chips over the bottom of an 8-inch unbaked pie shell.
  Freeze at least 1 hour.  Combine eggs, corn syrup, sugar, melted
  butter, and salt in a bowl. Beat until well blended, using an
  electric mixer set to medium speed. Stir in the pecans and pour over
  the chocolate chips in the pie shell. Bake in a 375 degree oven for
  50 minutes or until the custard is set. Cool on a wire rack.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Pecan Pie
 Categories: Chocolate, Desserts, Pies
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1 c  Light Corn Syrup
      3 tb Butter or Regular Margarine
      1 ts Vanilla
      1    Unbaked 9-inch Pie Shell
    1/2 ts Salt
      3 oz Baking Chocolate,Melt & Cool
      3    Eggs; Lg
      1 c  Pecans; Chopped
 
  Combine the sugar, slat, corn syrup, cooled chocolate, melted butter,
  eggs and vanilla in a bowl.  Beat until well blended, using an
  electric mixer set to medium speed.  Stir in the pecans and turn into
  the unbaked pie shell.  Bake in a 375 degree F. oven for 35 minutes
  or until set.  (Pie will be puffy when it comes out of the oven and
  will sink while cooling.) Cool on a wire rack.
 

 

 
      Title: Extra-Rich Chocolate Pecan Pie
 Categories: Chocolate, Desserts, Pies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 oz Semi-Sweet Chocolate Chips
      2 tb Butter Or Regular Margarine
      1 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Pecans; Chopped
    2/3 c  Evaporated Milk
      2    Eggs; Lg, Slightly Beaten
      2 tb Unbleached Flour
      1 ts Vanilla
      1    Unbaked 9-inch Pie Shell
 
  Combine the chocolate chips, evaporated milk, and butter in a small
  saucepan.  Cook over low heat, stirring constantly, until mixture is
  smooth and creamy.  Combine the eggs, sugar, flour, salt, vanilla and
  pecans in a bowl and mix well.  Gradually stir the chocolate mixture
  into the egg mixture, blending well, and pour into the unbaked pie
  shell.  Bake in a 375 degree F. oven for 40 minutes or until the
  filling is set.  Cool on a wire rack.
 

 

 
      Title: Forgotten Cookies
 Categories: Cookies
      Yield: 36 servings
 
      2    Egg Whites
    1/4 c  White Sugar
      1 c  Chocolate Chips
      1 pn Salt
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Preheat oven to 325 degrees. Beat egg whites with the salt until
  foamy. Slowly add sugar, one tablespoonful at a time, beating after
  each addition until the meringue stands in stiff peaks. Stir in
  vanilla and fold in chocolate chips. Drop by teaspoonfuls on a lined
  baking sheet and place in preheated oven. After 2 minutes, turn off
  oven. Leave meringues in oven overnight. remove from pan and store in
  cookie tin lined with paper towel. Makes 3 dozen. From The Gazette
  90/12/19.
 

 

 
      Title: Beacon Hill Cookies
 Categories: Cookies
      Yield: 36 servings
 
      2    Egg whites
    1/2 ts Vinegar
      1 c  Chocolate chips
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla
    3/4 c  Chopped walnuts or pecans
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Beat egg whites until foamy. Slowly add
  sugar, one tablespoonful at a time, beating after each addition until
  the meringues stand in stiff peaks. Stir in vinegar and vanilla. Fold
  in chocolate chips and chopped nuts. Drop by teaspoonfuls on prepared
  baking sheets. Bake for 10 minutes. With a spatula, remove meringues
  immediately and place on a wire rack to cool. Makes 3 dozen. From The
  Gazette 90/12/19.
 

 

 
      Title: Peanut Butter Kisses
 Categories: Cookies, Desserts
      Yield: 30 servings
 
  1 3/4 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
    1/2 c  Peanut butter
      1 ts Vanilla
      1    Egg
      1 pk Hersheys chocolate kisses
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Butter
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Milk
 
  (have kisses unwrapped before removing cookies from oven) Cream sugar,
  butter, egg and vanilla. Add peanut butter and milk, mix well. Add in
  dry ingredients. Spoon out by spoonfuls onto ungreased cookie sheet.
  Bake at 375 for 10-12 minutes. Remove from oven and top each cookie
  with a kiss while still hot.  = Tip = if you like crunchy cookies
  replace butter with shortening, but other wise the butter makes them
  nice and chewy.
 

 

 
      Title: Mrs. Fields Cookies
 Categories: Cookies
      Yield: 112 servings
 
      2 c  Butter
      2 c  Brown sugar
      2 ts Vanilla
      5 c  Oatmeal *
      2 ts Baking powder
      1    Chocolate chips (24-oz bag)
      2 c  Sugar
      4    Eggs
      4 c  Flour
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Baking soda
           Chopped nuts. Optional
 
  *   (put small amount into a blender and blend until it turns into a
  Cream together butter, sugar, and brown sugar. Add 4 eggs and
  vanilla. Mix in flour, oatmeal, salt, baking powder, and baking soda.
  Add a 24-oz bag of chocolate chips, one 8-oz Hershey bar (grated),
  and/or 3 c chopped nuts. Bake on an ungreased cookie sheet. Bake golf
  ball sized cookies, placed 2 inches apart at 375 degrees for 15
  minutes.
 

 

 
      Title: Bishop Pie
 Categories: Pies
      Yield: 15 servings
 
      1 c  Butter
  1 1/2 c  Chopped pecans
      1 c  Confectioners sugar
      3 pk Instant chocolate pudding
      2 c  Flour
      8 oz Cream cheese
      3 c  Whipped topping
      3 c  Milk
 
  Melt butter; stir in flour and 1 c of the nuts.  Continue stirring
  until a thick paste is formed, with no flour lumps.  Press into
  bottom of a 13x10 baking pan and bake 15 min at 375F.  Cool. Prepare
  first layer of filling by combining cream cheese, sugar, and 1 c
  whipped topping. Beat with electric mixer at med speed for 2-3 min.
  Spoon into cooled crust, then smooth with spatula. Combine pudding
  and milk in the mixing bowl used for the first filling. Beat well,
  then pour over the cream cheese layer. As soon as the chocolate layer
  firms up a bit, spoon on more whipped topping, smoothing and adding
  until there is an additional 1/2" layer above the chocolate.
  Sprinkle with remaining pecans and chill for at least 3 hours. From
  the Pipe Dream Restaurant, Willington, CT
 

 

 
      Title: Classic Mud Pie
 Categories: Pies
      Yield: 8 servings
 
---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
      6 oz Semi Sweet Chocolate Chips
  1 1/4 c  Chocolate Wafer Crumbs
      3 tb Butter

------------------------FUDGE SAUCE-----------------------------
      6 oz Semi Sweet Chocolate Chips
      3 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Heavy Cream (whipping cream)
      1 tb Coffee Flavored Liqueur

--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      1 qt Coffee Ice Cream, softened
      2 tb Coffee Flavored Liqueur
 
  CRUST:
      Combine  over  hot (not boiling) water, 1/2 C  chocolate  chips
  and
      butter,  stir  until chips are melted and mixture  is  smooth.
   Add
      chocolate wafer crumbs, stir until well blended.  Press into
  9-inch
      pie pan.  Chill until firm. FUDGE SAUCE:
      Combine  over  hot (not boiling) water remaining 1 1/2  C
  chocolate
      chips,  heavy  cream, and butter.  Stir until chips are  melted
  and
      mixture  is  smooth.   Remover from heat, stir  in  coffee
  flavored
      liqueur.   Chill  10  minutes.   Spread 1/2 C  sauce  on  bottom
  of
      chocolate cookie crust.  Chill 15 minutes. FILLING:
      In large bowl, combine ice cream and coffee flavored liqueur.
   Pour
      over  Fudge Sauce layer in pie pan.  Freeze several hours  or
  until
      firm.   Serve with remaining warm Fudge Sauce and Whipped  Cream
  if
      used.  Makes 1 9-inch pie
 

 

 
      Title: Caribbean Fudge Pie
 Categories: Chocolate, Desserts, Pies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Butter Or Regular Margarine
      3    Eggs; Lg
      2 ts Instant Coffee Powder
    1/4 c  Unbleached Flour
      1    Unbaked 9" Pie Shell
    3/4 c  Brown Sugar; Firmly Packed
     12 oz Chocolate Chips; Melt & Cool
      1 ts Rum Flavoring
      1 c  Walnuts; Coarsely Chopped
           Walnut Halves
 
  Cream the butter and brown sugar together in a bowl until light and
  fluffy, using an electric mixer at medium speed.  Add the eggs, one
  at a time, beating well after each addition.  Add the cooled
  chocolate, coffee powder, and rum flavoring, blending well.  Stir in
  the flour and the chopped walnuts and turn into the unbaked pie
  shell.  Arrange the walnut halves in a circle around the edge of the
  pie.  Bake in a preheated 375 degree F. oven for 25 minutes or until
  set around the edge.  Cool on a wire rack.
 

 

 
      Title: Divine Triple Chocolate Pie
 Categories: Chocolate, Pies, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
--------------------CHOCOLATE PIE SHELL-------------------------
      1 c  Unbleached Flour; Sifted
    1/3 c  Vegetable Shortening
      2 tb Cold Water
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 oz Semi-Sweet Chocolate; Grated

----------------------------PIE---------------------------------
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
      3    Eggs; Lg, Separated
    1/2 ts Vanilla
    1/4 c  Sugar
           Unflavored Gelatin; 1 Env.
      1 c  Milk
      3 oz Baking Chocolate; Cut Up
    1/4 ts Cream Of Tartar
      1 c  Heavy Cream; Whipped

--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           Sweetened Whipped Cream
    1/2 oz Semi-Sweet Chocolate
 
  CHOCOLATE PIE CRUST: Sift the salt and flour into a bowl and cut in
  the shortening, using a pastry blender, until coarse crumbs form. Add
  the chocolate and water, tossing with a fork, until the dough forms.
  Press the dough firmly into a ball and then roll out on a lightly
  floured surface into a 13-inch circle. Loosely fit the dough into a
  9-inch pie plate and trim the edge so that there it reaches 1 inch
  beyond the rim of the pie plate.  Fold the extra under the edge of
  the crust to from a ridge. Flute the edge and prick the entire
  surface of the pie shell with a fork. Bake at 400 degrees F for 12
  minutes or until a golden brown. Cool on a rack. CHOCOLATE PIE: Stir
  the 1/4 cup of sugar, the gelatin and salt together in a 2-quart
  saucepan. Stir in the milk and slightly beaten egg yolks. Add 3 (1
  oz) squares of unsweetened chocolate and cook over low heat, stirring
  constantly, until the chocolate melts and the gelatin dissolves.
  Remove from the heat and stir in the vanilla.  Chill in the
  refrigerator, stirring occasionally, until the mixture is the
  consistency of unbeaten egg whites. Remove the chocolate mixture from
  the refrigerator and set aside Immediately beat the egg whites and
  cream of tartar, in another bowl, until foamy, using an electric
  mixer set on high speed.  Gradually add the 1/4 cup of sugar, 1 Tbls
  at a time, beating well after each addition. Continue beating until
  stiff, glossy peaks form when the beaters are slowly lifted. When the
  chocolate mixture mounds slightly when dropped from a spoon, beat
  until smooth, using an electric mixer at medium speed. Fold the egg
  white mixture into the chocolate mixture; then fold in the whipped
  cream. Chill in the refrigerator until the mixture mounds well when
  spooned. Turn into the chocolate pie shell.  Chill in the
  refrigerator for 2 hours or until set.  To serve, decorate the pie
  with puffs of sweetened whipped cream. Grate and sprinkle the
  chocolate over the whipped cream.
 

 

 
      Title: Phipps Famous Shortbread
 Categories: Cookies
      Yield: 48 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Flour, all purpose
      1 c  Fruit sugar
    1/2 lb Belgian chocolate
      1 lb Butter, soft
      1 c  Sifted rice flour
 
  Spread the all-purpose flour on a cookie sheet and place under a
  pre-heated broiler about 4-5 inches from the element.  Roast the
  flour, watching it all the time until it is medium brown.  Turn the
  flour with a spatula to brown the other side.  The entire procedure
  takes about three minutes and gives the flour a rich nutty flavour.
  Let the flour cool.
  Mix the soft butter with the fruit sugar and add the sifted rice
  flour. Fold in the roasted flour and blend well.  Chop the chocolate
  into chunks just a little smaller than a sugar cube.  Mix them into
  the dough, taking care you don't soften the chocolate too much.
  Shape as desired.  Bake at 300F for 1 hour.  Cool, then store in an
  airtight container.  Yield depends upon size and shape.
 

 

 
      Title: Brownie Cookies
 Categories: Desserts, Cookies, Chocolate
      Yield: 48 servings
 
      4 oz Semisweet chocolate
  2 1/3 c  Sifted all-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder
      1 c  Granulated sugar
      2    Egg
    3/4 c  Finely chopped walnuts
      1 oz Unsweetened chocolate
  1 1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/4 lb Unsalted butter
      1 tb Vanilla extract
      1 tb Milk
 
  1.  Melt the chocolate over hot water. 2.  Sift the flour, baking
  soda, and baking powder together. Set aside. 3.  In the bowl of a
  mixer, cream the butter. Add the sugar slowly and continue to beat.
  Add the vanilla, then the eggs 1 at a time. Add the chocolate and
  stir to blend. 4. Stir in the dry ingredients and the milk by hand.
  When just blended, mix in the walnuts. Cover and refrigerate dough
  for 30 minutes before rolling. 5. Preheat oven to 375 degres. Lightly
  grease a cookie sheet. 6. To form the cookies, scoop out a portion of
  dough and roll out on a well-floured surface. When dough is 1/4 inch
  thick, cut it into rounds or other desired shapes. Re-roll scraps and
  cut again. 7. Place on cookie sheet (leave room for expansion) and
  bake for 6 to 8 minutes. Watch for any hot spots in the oven and
  don't let these cookies overbrown. VARIATION: For the Brownie Cookie
  Crust, make 1 recipe of Brownie Cookies and chill the dough briefly.
  Lightly grease the back side of a large baking sheet. Roll the dough
  out onto the baking sheet as thinly as possible so that the baked
  product will crumble easily. Bake crust at 375 degrees for 5 to 7
  minutes. Let crust harden, then slide the cookie from the sheet and
  cool completely. Roll over the cookie with a rolling pin until it is
  crushed to a fine crumb. (There should be about 2 1/4 cups of
  crumbs.) Melt 1 stick plus 1 tablespoon of unsalted butter. Mix it
  into the crumbs and pack the mixture over the bottom and up the sides
  of a 10-inch springform pan. Freeze for 30 minutes before filling in
  order to set the crust. Note: When I made this, I made individual
  cookie crumb crusts for the "Kit's Chocolate Mousse" recipe by using
  a large muffin pan. Line each cup with waxed paper for easy removal.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Leaf Pie
 Categories: Desserts, Pies
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    3/4 ts Salt
      6 tb Ice water
    3/4 c  Heavy cream
      1 tb Sugar
    3/4 c  Cold vegetable shortening
      4 oz Chocolate
    1/4    Vanilla bean
 
  1 x  FLAKY PASTRY PIE DOUGH          2 1/2 c  all purpose flour
  FLAKY PASTRY PIE DOUGH In large bowl combine the flour and salt, cut
  in shortening until the mixture resembles coarse meal with some
  pieces of shortening the size of corn kernels still visible.
  Sprinkle 5 tablespoons of the ice water over the mixture, tossing to
  moisten evenly. Gather the dough into a ball adding up to 1
  tablespoon more ice water if the dough is to dry. Divide the dough in
  half and pat each piece into a 6 inch disk. Wrap separately in
  plastic warp and refrigerate for at least 30 minutes. When dough is
  cold, roll out one piece on floured surface and fit into pie plate.
  With other piece of dough roll out and cut leaf patterns making light
  vein like designs. Fit onto pie plate and freeze. Pre bake at 350
  degrees until golden. CHOCOLATE FILLING Simmer heavy cream with
  scraped vanilla bean, add melted chocolate and
 

 

 
      Title: Old Fashioned Coconut Oatmeal Cookies
 Categories: Cookies, Desserts
      Yield: 36 servings
 
      1 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
      1 c  Flour
    1/4 c  Wheat germ
      1 ts Baking powder
  1 1/2 c  Chocolate chips or raisins
      1 c  Granulated sugar
      1    Egg
      1 c  Old mill oates
    3/4 c  Coconut
      1 ts Baking soda
 
  Cream butter, sugars and egg together thoroughly.  Add flour, oats,
  wheat germ, coconut, baking powder and baking soda.  Mix well.  Stir
  in raisins. Drop by teaspoonfuls onto lightly greased baking sheets.
  Flatten slightly with floured fork.  Bake at 350 degrees for 12-15
  minutes or until golden. Makes about 3 dozen.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocoholics Cookies
 Categories: Cookies, Desserts
      Yield: 50 servings
 
      4 oz Unsweetened Chocolate
      3 oz Unsalted Butter
  1 1/2 tb Instant Espresso
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      3 c  Flour
    1/4 ts Salt
      8 oz Pecan Halves
      6 oz Semi-Sweet Chocolate, melted
     12 oz Semi-Sweet Chocolate
      3 oz Margarine
      4    Eggs
      4 tb Vanilla
    1/2 ts Baking Powder
      6 oz Semi-Sweet Chocolate
      8 oz Walnut Halves
 
  in oven until toasted, 10 to 12 minutes or until they develop a toasty
  aroma.  Remove from oven and set aside to cool.  Increase oven
  temperature to 350 degrees.  Place unsweetened chocolate, 12 oz
  semi-sweet chocolate, butter, margarine and espresso in top of double
  boiler and place over simmering (not boiling) water until chocolate
  is about 3/4 melted. Meanwhile, beat the eggs with a wire whisk in a
  large mixing bowl. Gradually add sugar, whisking until mixture
  becomes thick and light in color.  When chocolate is almost melted,
  remove from heat and stir until completely melted and satiny in
  appearance.  Gradually whisk chocolate into egg mixture.  Stir with a
  wooden spoon to incorporate.  Sift flour, baking powder and salt
  directly into chocolate mixture.  Gently stir until the dry
  ingredients are barely incorporated.  Cut the 6 oz of semi-sweet
  chocolate into 1/2 inch chunks and stir into dough along with the
  toasted nuts. Lightly butter 4 aluminum baking sheets.  (do not use
  foil or cookies will burn)  Drop dough by tablespoonfuls, 12 to a
  sheet to leave room for cookies to spread.  Bake only one sheet at a
  time in center of oven. Bake at 350 degrees for 10 to 12 minutes, or
  until cookies lose their shine. Cookies will still be very soft.
  Allow to cool for 2 minutes before removing from pans.  Using a
  pin-sized tip on an icing bag, pipe melted semi-sweet chocolate onto
  cookies in a criss-cross pattern. Allow to cool at least 1 hour
  before storing in tins. Makes 50 one-ounce cookies
 

 

 
      Title: Bogus Cookies
 Categories: Cookies, Desserts
      Yield: 112 servings
 
      2 c  Butter
      2 c  Brown Sugar
      2 ts Vanilla
      5 c  Ground Oatmeal
      2 ts Baking Powder
     24 oz Chocolate Chips
      3 c  Chopped Nuts (any kind)
      2 c  Sugar
      4    Eggs
      4 c  Flour
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Baking Soda
      8 oz Hershey Bar, grated
 
  until all is powder. oatmeal, salt, baking powder and baking soda
  then add to butter/sugar mixture. Mix well and add chocolate and
  nuts. Make golf ball sized cookies and place 2 inches apart on
  ungreased cookie sheet. Bake at 375 degrees for 16 minutes. Preheat
  oven to 375 degrees Makes 112 cookies
 

 

 
      Title: Cindy's Chocolate Chip Cookie
 Categories: Cookies, Desserts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1    Stick of butter
      6 tb White sugar
      1    Egg
      1 c  Chocolate chips
    1/2 ts Salt
      6 tb Brown sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla
    3/4 c  Flour
      1 c  Oats
 
  Bake at 350 for 10-12 minutes. Can substitute 3 bags of instant
  oatmeal instead of oats and salt.
  :       RECIPE CLIPPED by Michael Prothro
 

 

 
      Title: FLORENTINES
 Categories: Cookies, Kump
      Yield: 24 servings
 
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/3 c  Light brown sugar
           - (firmly packed)
    1/4 c  Sifted flour
    1/4 c  Whipping cream; plus
      1 tb Whipping cream
    3/4 c  Finely chopped almonds
      4 oz Semisweet chocolate
      3 tb Butter
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. Cream butter and sugar until light and fluffy.
  Stir in flour alternately with cream, then mix in almonds. Drop
  teaspoons of batter 3-inches apart on greased and floured baking
  sheets. With a knife dipped in cold water, spread the batter into
  2-inch rounds. Bake for 12 minutes. Cool 1-or-2 minutes on baking
  sheets then transfer to wire racks. If cookies become hard to remove,
  return to the oven for 1-or-2 minutes to soften. Melt chocolate with
  butter and cool slightly. Spread over bottoms of cookies.
  
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 

 

 
      Title: REVERSE CHOCOLATE CHIP COOKIES
 Categories: Cookies, Chocolate, Nuts, Kump
      Yield: 24 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter
      1 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla
      2    Eggs
    3/4 c  Sifted flour
    1/2 ts Baking soda
      4 oz Semisweet chocolate; melted
    3/4 c  White chocolate,
           - (coarsely chopped)
    3/4 c  Macadamia nuts,
           - (coarsely chopped)
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. Cream butter, sugar and salt together until
  light and fluffy. Beat in vanilla and eggs. Gradually beat in flour
  and baking soda, then mix in chocolate and nuts. Drop by teaspoonfuls
  onto a greased cookie sheet. Bake 15 minutes.
  
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 

 

 
      Title: BASLER BRUNSLI
 Categories: Cookies, Desserts, Swiss, Malgieri
      Yield: 8 servings
 
  1 3/4 c  Sugar
  3 1/2 c  Whole unblanched almonds
      7 oz Semisweet chocolate
      2 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 ts Ground clove
      4 lg Egg whites
      1 tb Kirsch (optional)
 
  COMBINE THE SUGAR and almonds in the food processor and pulse to grind
  finely. Be careful that the mixture does not become warm. Cut the
  chocolate finely and add to the processor. Pulse to grind the
  chocolate finely and mix with the almonds and sugar. Add the
  remaining ingredients and pulse to mix rapidly. Strew the surface
  with sugar and press the paste out about 3/8-inch thick. Roll over
  with a grooved rolling pin. Cut the Brunsli in hearts, stars and
  clover leaf shapes and place on paper-lined pans. Allow to dry
  several hours, uncovered, at room temperature. Preheat oven to 300F.
  Bake about 10 minutes. Do not overbake or they will be very hard.
  
  NICK MALGIERI - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 

 

 
      Title: CUCIDATI
 Categories: Cookies, Italian, Malgieri
      Yield: 48 servings
 
--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      2 c  Dried figs
    1/4 c  Yellow raisins
    1/4 c  Currants or dark raisins
    1/4 c  Candied orange peel
    1/4 c  Toasted, sliced almonds
    1/4 c  Toasted pine nuts
      2 oz Bittersweet chocolate
           - chopped
    1/3 c  Apricot preserves
    1/4 c  Dark rum
      1 ts Instant espresso coffee
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 ts Ground cloves

---------------------------DOUGH--------------------------------
  3 1/3 c  Flour
      1 c  Sugar
      1 ts Baking powder
     12 tb Lard or butter
      2    Eggs
    1/3 c  Milk

------------------EGG WASH FOR ASSEMBLING-----------------------
      1    Egg
      1 pn Salt
           Confectioners' sugar
 
  The name of these filled pastries is Cucidati, which is Sicilian for
  Buccellati, or "little bracelets."
  
  FOR THE FILLING: Stem the figs and quarter them. Place in a bowl and
  cover with boiling water; steep 10 minutes. Drain and chop coarsely
  in the food processor. Combine with remaining ingredients. To prepare
  in advance, cover tightly with plastic wrap and keep at a cool room
  temperature or in the refrigerator up to 3 days.
  
  FOR THE DOUGH: Combine the flour, sugar and baking powder in a bowl
  and stir to mix. Rub in the lard or butter finely, leaving the
  mixture powdery. Beat the eggs and milk to combine in a small bowl
  and stir into the flour mixture to form a dough. Turn the dough out
  on a lightly floured surface and knead lightly a few times. Wrap the
  dough in plastic and chill. Divide the dough into 12 pieces and roll
  each into a cylinder about 12 inches long. Flour the surface and the
  dough lightly and roll it into a rectangle about 14 inches long and 3
  inches wide. Place a line of the filling down the center of each
  rectangle, using 1/12 of the filling for each piece of dough. Bring
  up the dough around the filling and pinch to seal. Turn the filled
  sausage of dough over so that the seam is on the bottom and cut it
  into 3 1/2- to 4-inch lengths. Using a sharp paring knife or
  single-edge razor blade, make a series of diagonal slashes in the top
  of each little sausage. Pull and twist gently, holding the sausage at
  each end to open the slashes. Transfer the Cucidati as they are
  formed to paper- lined cookie sheets, curving them into wide
  horseshoe shapes. Make an egg wash by beating the egg and salt
  together with a fork until it is loose. Paint each shape with the egg
  wash. Bake the Cucidati in a preheated 350F oven about 20 minutes, or
  until they are a light golden color. Cool, dust with confectioners'
  sugar and store the Cucidati in tins, between layers of wax paper.
  
  NICK MALGIERI - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 

 

 
      Title: CHOCOLATE ANGEL PIE
 Categories: Pies, Desserts, Pruess
      Yield: 8 servings
 
-------------------FOR THE MERINGUE SHELL------------------------
      3 lg Egg whites
      1 pn Salt
    1/4 ts Cream of tartar
    2/3 c  Granulated sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
    1/3 c  Finely chopped walnuts
           -OR- pecans

----------------------FOR THE FILLING---------------------------
      5 oz Semisweet chocolate
    1/4 c  Hot milk
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      1 pn Salt
  1 3/4 c  Whipping cream
      2 tb Confectioners' sugar
           Chocolate curls *
 
  * (To make chocolate curls, scrape a bar of chocolate with a vegetable
  peeler)
  
  PREHEAT THE OVEN TO 275F. TO MAKE THE MERINGUE SHELL: Beat the egg
  whites, salt and cream of tartar together in the large bowl of an
  electric mixer until soft peaks form. Slowly beat in the sugar. Beat
  until meringue is very stiff. Beat in the vanilla. Grease a 9-inch
  glass pie pan. Spread the meringue over the bottom and sides,
  building up the sides as high as possible. Sprinkle the nuts over the
  bottom. Bake for 1 hour. (If, after 10 minutes, the sides start to
  sag, gently push back into place.) Turn off the oven and let the
  shell cool in the oven for 30 minutes. Cool completely on a wire rack.
  
  TO MAKE THE FILLING: Melt the chocolate in the top of a double boiler
  over hot water. Add the milk, vanilla and salt. Stir until smooth.
  Cool. Beat 1 cup cream until stiff and fold into the cooled chocolate
  mixture. Spread evenly in the meringue shell. Refrigerate 4 hours.
  Before serving, beat the remaining cream with the confectioners'
  sugar until stiff. Spread over top of pie. Decorate with chocolate
  curls.
  
  JOANNA PRUESS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 

 

 
      Title: KILLER TRIPLE CHIP BROWNIES
 Categories: Cookies, Desserts, Pruess
      Yield: 32 servings
 
           Butter; to grease the foil
     16 tb Unsalted butter; softened
      2 c  Sugar
      8 oz Bittersweet chocolate
           - melted and slightly cooled
      2 ts Vanilla extract
      4    Eggs
      1 c  Unbleached all-purpose flour
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Chopped walnuts
      2 c  Semisweet chocolate
      2 c  Milk chocolate
      2 c  Butterscotch bits
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. Line an 8 3/4-by-13 1/2-inch glass or metal pan
  with a large piece of aluminum foil, smoothing it into the corners.
  Butter the foil. In a large bowl, cream the butter with the sugar
  together until it is light in color. Stir in the melted chocolate.
  Add the vanilla, then add the eggs, beating until blended. In another
  bowl, combine the flour and salt. Add the walnuts and all the bits,
  tossing to coat them with the flour. Scrape the flour, nuts and bits
  into the bowl with the butter, and stir with a wooden spoon just
  until all the ingredients are mixed. Do not over-beat. Scrape the
  batter into the prepared pan, holding the foil so that it does not
  move. Place the pan in the middle of the oven and bake until a
  toothpick inserted in the center comes out almost clean, about 50
  minutes. Remove the pan and let it stand for an hour, then cover the
  pan with foil and place it in your freezer for at least 1 1/2 hours
  or in your refrigerator overnight. Turn the cooled brownies out onto
  a clean workspace, lift off the foil and cut into 32 squares. Store
  in the refrigerator or the freezer in an airtight tin.
  
  JOANNA PRUESS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 

 

 
      Title: NEIMAN-MARCUS COOKIES
 Categories: Cookies, Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Butter
      2 c  Granulated sugar
      2 c  Light brown sugar
      4    Eggs
      2 ts Vanilla extract
      4 c  All-purpose flour
      5 c  Oatmeal, blended*
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Baking powder
      2 ts Baking soda
     24 oz Chocolate chips
      1    8 oz. Hershey bar (grated)
      3 c  Chopped pecans
 
  Cream the butter and both sugars.  Add eggs and vanilla; mix together
  with flour, oatmeal, salt, baking powder, and soda. Add chocolate
  chips, Hershey bar, and nuts. Roll into balls and place two inches
  apart on a cookie sheet.  Bake for 10 minutes at 375 degrees.  Makes
  112 cookies (recipe may be halved. *Measure oatmeal, then blend in a
  blender to a fine powder.
 

 

 
      Title: Choco-Scotch Clusters
 Categories: Cereals, Cookies, Snacks
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      6 oz Chocolate Chips; Semisweet
      6 oz Butterscotch Morsels
    1/4 c  Peanut Butter
      3 c  Cereal; Rice Krispies
 
  Melt chocolate, butterscotch, and peanut butter in top of a double
  boiler, stirring constantly, until well blended. Remove from heat,
  add Rice Krispies and stir until cereal is thouroughly coated. Drop
  by tablespoon on wax paper.  Cool until firm. VARIATION: For a
  lighter snack, increase the Rice Krispies to 4 cups.
 

 

 
      Title: Hydrox Cookie Dessert
 Categories: Cookies, Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/2 c  Milk
      2    Egg Yolks; Large
     24    Marshmallows; Full Size
      2    Egg Whites; Lge,Beaten Stiff
      1 c  Heavy Cream; Whipped
     36    Hydrox Chocolate Cookies
      8 tb Butter; Melted
 
  Mix milk, egg yolks, and marshmallows.  Heat to custard consistency,
  cool. Add beaten egg whites and whipped cream. Mas cookies thoroughly
  and add melted butter to make crumbs. Place all but a couple of Tbls
  of the crumbs on the bottom of a 9 X 13-inch pan.
   Spread custard mixture neatly over crumbs.  Sprinkle reserved crumbs
  over the top.  Chill until firm. NOTE: Oreo Single filling and Hydrox
  cookies are about the same. If you can't find Hydrox you can
  substitute Oreo singles for the Hydrox.
 

 

 
      Title: Bonbon Cookies
 Categories: Cookies, Alcohol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  3 1/2 c  Vanilla wafers
      2 tb Cocoa
    1/2 c  Powdered sugar
    1/4 c  Light corn syrup
    1/3 c  Southern comfort
      1 c  Walnuts; chopped
      6 oz Chocolate chips
      1 tb Shortening
 
  Roll out vanilla wafers with rolling pin until fine and smooth
  combine with remaining ingredients, except chocolate and shortening.
  Roll into balls and dip in melted chocolate chips (melted over low
  heat with shortening). Put in refrigerator overnight. Serve cold.
 

 

 
      Title: MRS FIELDS CHOCOLATE RAISIN COOKIES
 Categories: Cookies, Mimi
      Yield: 48 servings
 
      1 c  BUTTER,DIVIDED
      2 oz UNSWEETENED BAKING CHOCOLATE
  2 1/4 c  FLOUR
    1/2 ts SODA
    1/4 ts SALT
      1 c  DARK BROWN SUGAR, PACKED
    1/2 c  SUGAR
      2 lg EGGS
      2 ts VANILLA EXTRACT
  1 1/2 c  RAISINS
      1 c  SEMISWEET CHOCOLATE CHIPS
 
      PREHEAT OVEN TO 300*F. IN A DOUBLE-BOILER OVER HOT BUT NOT BOILING
  WATER, MELT 1/2 CUP BUTTER AND THE CHOCOLAT. REMOVE FROM HEAT AND SET
  ASIDE.  IN  MEDIUM BOWL, COMBINE FLOUR, SODA AND SALT. IN A LARGE
  BOWL WITH AN ELECTRIC MIXER  BLEND SUGARS AT MEDIUM SPEED UNTIL
  FLUFFY. ADD THE REMAINING 1/2 CUP BUTTER AND MIX TO FORM A GRAINY
  PASTE, SCRAPING DOWN THE SIDES OF THE BOWL. ADD EGGS AND VANILLA, AND
  BEAT AT MEDIUM SPEED UNTIL LIGHT AND FLUFFY. ADD MELTED CHOCOLATE AND
  BLEND UNTIL THOROUGHLY COMBINED. ADD THE FLOUR MIXTURE, RAISINS AND
  CHOCOLATE CHIPS. BLEND JUST UNTIL COMBINED. DROP BY ROUNDED
  TABLESPOONS ONTO UNGREASED BAKING SHEETS 2 INCHES APART. BAKE FOR
  20-22 MIN OR UNTIL SET. TRANSFER TO COOL, FLAT SURFACE IMMEDIATELY
  WITH A SPATULA.
 

 

 
      Title: MRS FIELDS PECAN SUPREMES
 Categories: Cookies, Mimi
      Yield: 36 servings
 
      2 c  FLOUR
    1/2 ts SODA
    1/4 ts SALT
    3/4 c  QUICK OATS
    3/4 c  DARK BROWN SUGAR, PACKED
    3/4 c  SUGAR
      1 c  BUTTER, SOFTENED
      2 lg EGGS
      2 ts VANILLA EXTRACT
      1 c  CHOPPED PECANS (4 OZ)
      1 c  SEMISWEET CHOCOLATE CHIPS
 
       PREHEAT OVEN TO 300*F.  IN A MEDIUM BOWL COMBINE FLOUR, SODA,
  SALT, AND OATS. MIX WELL AND SET ASIDE. IN A LARGE BOWL BLEND SUGARS
  WITH AN ELECTRIC MIXER AT MEDIUM SPEED. ADD BUTTER AND MIX TO FORM A
  GRAINY PASTE. SCRAPE DOWN SIDES OF BOWL, THEN ADD EGGS AND VANILLA.
  BEAT AT MEDIUM SPEED UNTIL LIGHT AND FLUFFY. ADD THE FLOUR MIXTURE,
  PECANS AND CHOCOLATE CHIPS AND BLEND AT LOW SPEED JUST UNTIL
  COMBINED. DROP DOUGH BY ROUNDED TABLESPOONS ONTO UNGREASED COOKIE
  SHEETS, 1 1/2 INCHES APART. BAKE FOR 20-22 MINUTES. IMMEDIATELY
  TRANSFER COOKIES TO A COOL, FLAT SURFACE.
 

 

 
      Title: MRS FIELDS BANANA NUT COOKIES
 Categories: Cookies, Mimi
      Yield: 48 servings
 
  2 2/3 c  FLOUR
    1/2 ts SODA
    1/4 ts SALT
      1 c  LT BROWN SUGAR, PACKED
    1/2 c  SUGAR
      1 c  BUTTER, SOFTENED
      1 lg EGG
      1 ts BANANA LIQUEUR OR EXTRACT
    3/4 c  MASHED RIPE BANANA
      2 c  SEMISWEET CHOCOLATE CHIPS
      1 c  CHOPPED WALNUTS
 
       PREHEAT OVEN TO 300*F.  IN  A MEDIUM BOWL, COMBINE FLOUR, SODA
  AND SALT. MIX WELL AND SET ASIDE. IN A LARGE BOWL WITH AN EXLECTRIC
  MIXER, BLEND SUGARS AT MEDIUM SPEED. ADD BUTTER AND MIX TO FORM A
  GRAINY PASTE, SCRAPING DOWN THE SIDES OF THE BOWL.  ADD EGG, LIQUEUR
  AND BANANA, AND BEAT AT MEDIUM SPEED UNTIL SMOOTH. ADD THE FLOUR
  MIXTURE, 1 CUP OF THE CHOCOLATE CHIPS AND THE WALNUTS AND BLEND AT
  LOW SPEED UNTIL JUST COMBINED. DROP BY ROUNDED TABLESPOONS ONTO
  UNGREASED COOKIE SHEETS, 2 INCHES APART. SPRINKLE COOKIES WITH
  CHOCOLATE CHIPS, 6 TO 8 PER COOKIE. BAKE 25-27 MINUTES UNTIL COOKIE
  EDGES BEGIN TO BROWN. TRANSFER IMMEDIATELY TO A COOL SURFACE.
 

 

 
      Title: MRS FIELDS NUTTY WHITE CHUNK COOKIES
 Categories: Cookies, Mimi
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  2 1/4 c  FLOUR
    1/2 ts SODA
    1/4 ts SALT
      1 c  LT BROWN SUGAR, PACKED
    1/2 c  SUGAR
    3/4 c  BUTTER, SOFTENED
      2 lg EGGS
      2 ts VANILLA EXTRACT
      1 c  PECANS, CHOPPED  (4 0Z)
  1 1/2 c  WHITE CHOCOLATE BAR (8 OZ)
           COARSELY CHOPPED
 
      PREHEAT OVEN TO 300* F. IN A MEDIUM BOWL COMBINE FLOUR, SODA AND
  SALT MIX WELL AND SET ASIDE.  IN A LARGE BOWL WITH AN ELECTRIC MIXER
  BLEND SUGARS AT MEDIUM SPEED. ADD BUTTER AND MIX TO FORM A GRAINY
  PASTE, SCRAPING DOWN THE SIDES OF BOWL.  ADD EGGS AND VANILLA AND
  BEAT AT MEDIUM SPEED UNTIL LIGHT AND FLUFFY. ADD THE FLOUR MIXTURE,
  PECANS AND WHITE CHOCOLATE AND BLEND ON LOW SPEED UNTIL JUST
  COMBINED. DROP BY ROUNDED TABLESPOONS ONTO UNGREASED COOKIE SHEETS, 2
  INCHES APART. BAKE 20-22 MIN. OR UNTIL EDGES JUST BEGIN TO TURN
  GOLDEN BROWN. TRANSFER COOKIES TO A COOL FLAT SURFACE.
 

 

 
      Title: Mrs Fields Krispies
 Categories: Cookies, Mimi
      Yield: 36 servings
 
      2 c  Flour
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Soda
    1/2 c  Dark brown sugar, packed
    1/2 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Butter, softened
      1 lg Egg
      2 ts Vanilla extract
      1 c  Crispy rice chocolate bar
           Coarsely chopped
 
      Preheat oven to 300*F. In a medium bowl combine flour, salt and
  soda. Mix well and set aside.  In a large bowl blend sugars with an
  electric mixer at medium speed. Add butter and mix to form a grainy
  paste. Scrape down sides of bowl and add egg and vanilla. Beat at
  medium speed until light and fluffy. Add flour mixture, rice cereal
  and chocolate chunks. Blend at low speed just until blended.  Drop by
  rounded tablespoons onto ungreased cookie sheet 2inches apart. Bake
  for 22-24 minutes. Immediately transfer cookies to a cool flat
  surface.
 

 

 
      Title: Mrs Fields' Black and Whites
 Categories: Cookies, Mimi
      Yield: 36 servings
 
  2 1/4 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Cocoa powder
    1/2 ts Soda
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Dark brown sugar, packed
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1 c  Butter, softened
      3 lg Eggs
      2 ts Vanilla extract
      1 c  Semisweet chocolate bar
           Coarsely chopped (5 1/4 oz)
      1 c  White chocolate bar
           Coarsely chopped (5 1/4 oz)
 
     Preheat oven to 300*F.  In a medium bowl combine flour, cocoa,
  soda and salt. Mix well and set aside.
     Blend sugars in a large bowl using an electric mixer set at medium
  speed.  Add butter and mix to form a grainy paste, scraping down
  sides of bowl.  Add eggs and vanilla, and beat at medium speed until
  smooth. Add the flour mixture and chocolates, and blend at low speed
  until just combined. Drop by rounded tablespoons onto ungreased
  cookie sheets, 2 in apart. Bake 23-25 min. Transfer to cooling rack.
 

 

 
      Title: Mrs Fields' Marbles
 Categories: Cookies, Mimi
      Yield: 30 servings
 
      2 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Light brown sugar, packed
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Butter, softened
      1 lg Egg
    1/2 c  Sour cream
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      1 c  Semisweet chocolate chips
 
     Preheat oven to 300*F.  In medium bowl combine flour, baking
  powder and salt with wire whisk. Set aside. Combine sugars in a large
  bowl using and electric mixer set at medium speed.  Add butter and
  beat until batter is grainy.  Add egg, sour cream and vanilla, and
  beat at medium speed until light and flufffy. Scrape bowl. Add the
  flour mixture, and blend at low speed until just combined.  Place
  chocolate chips in double boiler over hot but not boiling water. Stir
  constantly until melted. Or, place chips in a microwave proof bowl
  and zap on high, stirring every 20 seconds until melted.  Cool
  chocolate for a few minutes and pour over cookie batter. Using a
  wooden spoon or rubber spatula, lightly fold melted chocolate int the
  dough.  Do not mix chocolate completely into dough. Drop by rounded
  tablespoons, 2 inches apart, onto ungreased cookie sheets. Bake 23-25
  minutes.  Do not brown. Quickly transfer cookies to a cool surface.
 

 

 
      Title: Mrs Fields' Chocolate Mint Cookies
 Categories: Cookies, Mimi
      Yield: 36 servings
 
  2 1/3 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Soda
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Unsweetened cocoa powder
    3/4 c  Light brown sugar
    2/3 c  Sugar
      1 c  Butter, softened
      3 lg Eggs
      1 ts Mint extract
  1 3/4 c  Mint chocolate chips
 
      Preheat oven to 300*F.   In a medium bowl combine flour, soda,
  salt and cocoa. Mix  well and set aside. In a large bowl blend sugars
  with an electric mixer at medium speed. Add butter and beat to form a
  grainy paste. Scrape sides of bowl, then add eggs and mint extract.
  Beat at medium speed until light and fluffy. Add the flour mixture
  and chocolate chips, and blend at low speed just until combined. Drop
  dough by rounded tablespoons onto ungreased cookie sheets, 1 1/3 in
  apart. Bake for 19-21 minutes. Immediately transfer cookies to a
  cool, flat surface.
 

 

 
      Title: Mrs Fields' Lemon Chocolate Chip Buttons
 Categories: Cookies, Mimi
      Yield: 48 servings
 
      2 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Soda
      1 ts Ground coriander
    3/4 c  Butter, softened
      1 c  Sugar
      2 lg Eggs
  1 1/2 ts Lemon extract
  1 1/2 c  Miniature chocolate chips
 
      Preheat oven to 300* F.  In a medium bowl combine flour, soda and
  coriander with a wire whisk, set aside. In a large bowl cream butter
  and sugar with an electric mixer at medium speed to form a grainy
  paste. Add eggs and lemon extract, and beat well. Scrape down sides
  of bowl. Add the flour mixture and the chocolate chips, and blend at
  low speed just until combined.  Drop dough by teaspoons onto
  ungreased baking sheets, 1 1/2 inches apart.  Bake for 14-15 minutes
  on center rack of oven. Do not brown. Immediately transfer with a
  spatula to a cool surface.
 

 

 
      Title: Mrs Fields' Orange Chocolate Chunk Cookies
 Categories: Cookies, Mimi
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Grated orange peel
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Light brown sugar, packed
      1 c  Butter, softened
      2 lg Eggs
      1 ts Orange extract
  1 1/2 c  Semisweet chocolate bar
           Coarsely chopped  (8 oz)
 
       Preheat oven to 300*F.  In a medium bowl combine flour, soda,
  salt and orange peel.  Mix well and set aside. In a large bowl blend
  sugars with electric mixer at medium speed. Add butter and beat to
  form a grainy paste, scraping sides of bowl as needed.  Add eggs and
  orange extract, and beat at medium speed until light and fluffy. Add
  the flour mixture and chopped chocolate.  Blend on low speed just
  until mixed. Drop by rounded tablespoons onto ungreased cookie
  sheets, 1 1/2 inches apart. Bake for 22-24 minutes until cookies are
  slightly brown along the edges. Transfer cookies immediately to a
  cool surface.
 

 

 
      Title: Mrs Fields' Chocolate Chip Raisin Cookies
 Categories: Cookies, Mimi
      Yield: 54 servings
 
      2 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/3 c  Light brown sugar, packed
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  Butter, softened
      2 lg Eggs
      2 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Raisins
      2 c  Semisweet chocolate chips
 
      Preheat oven to 300*F.
         In a medium bowl combine flour and baking powder. Mix well
  with wire whisk and set aside.
   Blend sugars in a large bowl using an electric mixer at medium
  speed. Add butter and mix until grainy, scraping down the sides of
  the bowl. Add eggs and vanilla and mix at medium speed until smooth.
  Add the flour mixture, raisins and chocolate chips.  Blend at low
  speed until just combined. Drop by rounded tablespoons onto ungreased
  baking sheets, 1 1/2 inches apart. Bake 22-24 minutes.  Transfer
  cookies immediately to a cool, flat surface.
 

 

 
      Title: Mrs Fields' Applesauce Oaties
 Categories: Cookies, Mimi
      Yield: 48 servings
 
  1 3/4 c  Quick oats
  1 1/2 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Soda
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
      1 c  Lt brown sugar, packed
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Butter, softened
      1 lg Egg
    3/4 c  Applesauce
      1 c  Semisweet chocolate chips
      1 c  Raisins
      1 c  Chopped walnuts
 
      Preheat oven to 375*F.
   In a medium bowl combine oats, flour, baking powder, soda, salt,
  cinnamon and nutmeg.  Mix well with a wire whisk and set aside. In a
  large bowl combine sugars with an electric mixer at medium speed. Add
  butter and beat to form a grainy paste.  Add egg and applesauce, and
  blend until smooth. Add the flour mixture, chocolate chips, raisins
  and walnuts. Blend at low speed just until combined. Drop dough by
  tablespoons onto lightly greased baking sheets, 2 inches apart. Bake
  12-14 minutes or until light brown. Immediately transfer cookies with
  a spatula to a cool flat surface.
 

 

 
      Title: ROCKY ROAD FUDGE
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 24 servings
 
     16 oz (2 2/3 c) Chocolate chips
      2 tb Butter
      1 cn Sweetened condensed milk
      1 c  Lightly salted peanuts
      1 c  Mini-marshmallows
      1 cn Marachino cherries,drained
           -and cut in half
 
  Line a 13x9 inch pan with foil, letting ends extend 2 inches above
  narrow sides of pan. Melt chips in medium-sized saucepan over low
  heat, stirring often. Remove from heat. Stir in butter until melted,
  then milk until blended. stir in peanuts, marshmallow, and cherries.
  Spread into prepared pan. Refrigerate 8 hours until firm enough to
  cut. Lift foil by ends onto cutting board. Cut fudge into 1 inch
  squares. Store in waxed paper between layers in airtight container.
 

 

 
      Title: BLUE RIBBON FUDGE
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      2 c  Sugar
      6 oz Evaporated milk
      1 ds Salt
      1 ts Corn syrup
      4 oz Unsweetened chocolate
      2 tb Butter
      1 ts Vanilla
           Walnuts
 
  Butter sides of heavy 2 quart suacepan. In it combine sugar, milk,
  chocolate,salt and corn syrup. Cook and stir over medium heat until
  chocolate melts and sugar dissolves. Cook to soft ball stage (234 F)
  Remove from heat, add butter without stirring. Cool to
  lukewarm(110F), add vanilla and beat vigorously until fudge stiffens
  and loses it gloss. Quickly stir in walnuts,push from pan(don't
  scrape sides) into buttered shallow pan. Score while warm, cut when
  firm.
 

 

 
      Title: FAST AND FABULOUS DARK CHOCOLATE FUDGE
 Categories: Candies, Microwave, Chocolate
      Yield: 25 servings
 
    1/2 c  Corn syrup
    1/3 c  Evaporated milk
      3 c  Chocolate chips
    3/4 c  Confectioner's sugar
      2 ts Vanilla
  1 1/2 c  Walnuts, coarsely chopped
 
  Line 8 inch square baking pan with plastic wrap. In 3 quart
  microwavable bowl, combine corn syrup and evaporated milk, stir until
  well blended. Microwave on HIGH 3 minutes, Stir in chocolate chips
  until melted. Stir in confectioner's sugar, vanilla and walnuts. With
  wooden spoon, beat until thick and glossy. Spread into prepared pan.
  Refrigerate 2 hours until firm. 25 squares.
 

 

 
      Title: CREAMY MILK CHOCOLATE FUDGE
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 c  Milk chocolate chips
     12 oz Semisweet chocolate chips
      1 cn Sweetened condensed milk
      2 c  Miniature marshmallows
      1 ds Salt
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
 
  Line a 8-or 9-inch square baking pan with waxed paper. In heavy,
  medium-sized saucepan, over low heat,melt all chips, with sweetened
  condensed milk, marshmallows and salt; stir until smooth and well
  blended. Rem,ove from heat, stir in nuts and vanilla. Spread evenly
  into prepared pan. chill 2 hours, or until firm. Turn fudge onto
  cutting board, peel off paper and cut into squares. Store loosely
  covered at room temperature. Makes about 2 pounds.
 

 

 
      Title: MILK CHOCOLATE FUDGE
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Microwave
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk Milk chocolate chips; 12 oz
      3 tb Butter
    3/4 c  Walnuts; chopped
      2 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Sweetened condensed milk;
           -Like Eagle Brand or use
           -Recipe following

------------------SWEETENED CONENSED MILK-----------------------
    1/3 c  Water
    3/4 c  Sugar
  1 1/3 c  Instant skim milk
      4 tb Butter
 
  Place chocolate in microsafe dish or measuring cup. Microwave,
  uncovered, at MEDIUM to MEDIUM HIGH power until chocolate appears
  soft, approx. 3 minutes. Stir every minute. Do not overheat. (Or
  chocolate can be melted in top of a double-boiler over very low
  heat.) Stir until melted. Remove from heat. Stir in condensed milk,
  butter and vanilla. Blend until butter is mixed with the chocolate.
  Stir in nuts. Spread mixture into a lightly oiled 8-inch square pan.
  Cool at room temperature. SWEETENED CONDENSED MILK: Heat water and
  sugar in medium saucepan until sugar dissolves, approx. 5 minutes.
  Add butter. Heat mixture until butter melts. Remove from heat. Place
  instant milk in food processor or blender. Pour water/sugar mixture
  into processor/blender. Process until well blended. Makes 1 cup of
  sweetened condensed milk for fudge recipe. No leftovers like when you
  use the canned sweetened condensed milk.
 

 

 
      Title: APPALACHIA MOUNTAIN FUDGE
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Diana Lewis-VGWN37A
  4 1/2 c  Sugar
           Salt
    1/4 lb Butter
      1 cn Lg evaporated milk
     12 oz Semi-sweet chocolate chips
      5    Hersery bars
      1 pt Marshmallow cream
 
  In large bowl put in the chocolate bars (broken bits) and the
  marshmellow cream. Grease a 9X13 inch cake pan with butter or
  margarine. In a fairly deep pot put in the sugar , salt, milk, and
  butter. Mix well put on medium heat stirring constantly until it
  comes to a full boil. Let boil for 13 minutes (exactly) remove from
  stove pour over chocolate bits, milk chocolate and marshmellow cream.
  Beat till smooth Refridgerate for about 2 to 3 hours Cut into pieces.
  keep refridgerated so it will stay moist and creamy can be frozen
  will not turn white. this makes a ton of fudge also you can add
  walnuts or pecans JUDY-OHIO
 

 

 
      Title: SEE'S FUDGE
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -ANDY MONDAY-CWMR26A
      3 pk Chocolate chips
      1 pt Marshmellow cream
    1/2 lb Butter
      2 tb Vanilla
      2 c  Walnuts; chopped
  4 1/2 c  White sugar
      1 cn Evaporated milk
 
  Place in large bowl first five ingredients. Set aside.
  
  Boil briskly for 9 minutes after coming to a boil, the sugar and
  evaporated milk. Stirring, add to the first mixture and mix well. Put
  in buttered shallow pan and refrigerate. Slice into squares and
  serve. It will freeze and keep for months.
 

 

 
      Title: KAHLUA CREAMY FUDGE
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
      Yield: 3 servings
 
           -Linda Gross-HXVH61A
  1 1/3 c  Granulated sugar
      1    7oz. jar marshmallow creme
    2/3 c  Evaporated milk
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/4 c  Kahlua
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 c  Semi-sweet choc. pieces
      1 c  Milk chocolate pieces
    2/3 c  Chopped nuts
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Line 8" sq. baking pan with foil. In 2 qt. saucepan, combine sugar,
  marshmallow creme, milk, butter, Kahlua and salt. Bring to a rapid
  boil, stirring constantly for 5 min. Remove from heat; add all
  chocolate. Stir until melted. Add nuts and vanilla. Turn into
  prepared pan. Refrigerate until firm. To serve, cut in squares. Makes
  about 2 3/4 lbs. Pamphlet
 

 

 
      Title: NEVER FAIL FUDGE
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Microwave
      Yield: 2 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2    Stick butter or margarine
      1 cn (5oz) evaporated milk
      1 cn MARSHEMALLOW FLUFF(7-1/2oz)
    3/4 ts Salt
    3/4 ts Vanilla
     12 oz Semisweet-chocolate pieces
    1/2 c  Chopped walnuts
 
  Grease a 9-inch square baking pan, set aside. In large saucepan
  combine sugar, butter, evaporated milk, FLUFF and salt. Stir over low
  heat until blended. Bring to a full-rolling boil being careful not to
  mistake escaping air bubbles for boiling.Boil slowly, stirring
  constantly, 5 minutes,(soft ball stage). Remove from heat, stir in
  vanilla and chocolate until chocolate is melted. Add nuts. Turn into
  greased pan and cool. Makes 2-1/2 pounds. MICROWAVE FUDGE
  INSTRUCTIONS: 1. Combine sugar,margarine, milk, FLUFF and salt in a
  4-qt microwave safe bowl. Microwave at medium high for 2-1/2 minutes,
  remove and stir until blended. 2. Microwave at medium high for 5
  minutes; remove and stir until smooth. 3. Repeat step 2. 4. Microwave
  at medium high for 6 minutes; remove and stir in chocolate, vanilla
  and nuts for 5 minutes until thick. Turn in buttered 9x9 inch square
  pan and cool. IMPORTANT: Instructions are for a 600 watt microwave
  oven. For a different size oven, adjust cooking accordingly
 

 

 
      Title: MACADAMIA NUT FUDGE
 Categories: Candies, Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Dottie Cross TMPJ72B
      8 tb (1 stick) unsalted butter;
           -cut up
      1 c  Semisweet chocolate chips
           -(about 6 ounces)
      1 c  Coarsely chopped macadamia n
           -(about 4 ounces)
      1 oz Unsweetened chocolate;
           -finely chopped
      1 ts Vanilla extract
  2 1/4 c  Sugar
      1 cn 5-ounce evaporated milk
     12    Large marshmallows
           -(about 3 ounces)
 
  Butter an 8-inch-square baking pan. Line the bottom of the pan with
  foil. In a large bowl, combine the butter, chocolate chips, macadamia
  nuts, unsweetened chocolate, and vanilla. Attach a candy thermometer
  to a medium saucepan. Add the sugar, evaporated milk, and
  marshmallows. Bring to a boil over medium heat, stirring constantly
  to prevent burning. Cook, stirring constantly, until the mixture
  reaches 238 degrees. Pour the hot mixture into the bowl and let stand
  for 30 minutes. Stir until the mixture begins to thicken, about 1
  minute. Spread evenly in the prepared pan. Let stand until completely
  cooled. Cover with foil and let stand overnight to allow the flavors
  to mellow. Invert the fudge and remove the foil. Reinvert and cut
  into squares. Store the fudge at room temperature in an airtight
  container. Makes about 2 pounds. Source: "An Edible Christmas"
  cookbook by Irena Chalmers. Reformatted by: CYGNUS, HCPM52C
 

 

 
      Title: DORCHESTER FUDGE
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 20 servings
 
      1 pk (8oz)semi-sweet chocolate
    1/2 c  Marshmellow topping
    1/2 c  Chopped walnuts
    1/4 c  Butter or margerine, soften
    1/2 ts Vanilla
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    2/3 c  Evaporated milk
 
  1. Place chopped chocolate in a bowl with marshmellow topping,
  walnuts, butter and vanilla; set aside. 2. Combine sugar and
  evaporated milk in a 2-quart saucepan; cook and stir over medium heat
  until mixture comes to a full rolling boil for 5 minutes, stirring
  constantly. 3. Carefull pour boiling sugar-milk mixture over
  chocolate mixture and stir until chocolate is melted. Pour into a
  buttered 8-inch square pan. Chill until firm; about one hour. Cut
  into squares. Makes 1 1/2 lbs. 3 doz pieces Mocha Almond Fudge:
  Prepare Dorchester Fudge as directed; using chopped, toasted almonds
  for the walnuts and adding 2 teaspoons instant coffee powder to the
  sugar-milk mixture. Source: newsletter 2-85 and some magazine
 

 

 
      Title: CHOCOLATE PEANUT BUDDY BARS
 Categories: Bar cookies, Cookies, Chocolate, Pnut butter
      Yield: 48 servings
 
      1 c  Peanut butter
      6 tb Soft butter
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      3    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Flour
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 pk Nestle Chocolate Chips(12 oz
 
  Preheat oven to 350 F In large bowl, blend peanut butter and butter
  until smooth. Add sugar, eggs and vanilla, beat until creamy. Blend
  in flour and salt. Stir in 1 cup chips. Spread into ungreased 13x9
  inch pan. Bake 25-30 minutes, or until edges begin to brown.
  Immediately sprinkle remaining chocolate chips on. Let stand 5
  minutes until morsels become shiny and soft. Spread evnly over top.
  Cool completely. cut into 1 1/2 inch bars.
 

 

 
      Title: CHOCOLATE TRUFFLES
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
      Yield: 40 servings
 
      3 pk (6oz)semisweet Chocolate Chi
      1 cn Sweetened Condensed Milk
    1/2 ts Vanilla
           Coatings
 
  In heavy, medium sized saucepan, over low heat, melt chocolate chips
  with sweetened condensed milk. Remove from heat, stir in vanilla.
  Chill mixture for 1 hour, or until firm. Shape into 1 inch balls, dip
  in coatings. Place in foil or candy cups, chill one hour, or until
  firm. Store covered at room temperature.Coatings: Finely chopped
  nuts, flaked coconut, chocolate sprinkles,unsweetened cocoa,
  confectioner's sugar, finely chopped almonds, silver shot candies.
 

 

 
      Title: HOLIDAY TRUFFLES
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
      Yield: 40 servings
 
      3 pk Semisweet chocolate chips6oz
      1 cn Sweetened condensed milk
      2 tb Almond flavored liquer
    1/4 ts Almond extract
      2 tb Orange liquer
 
  In heavy, medium sized pan, over low heat, melt chips with sweetened
  condensed milk. Remove from heat, divide into 2 bowls. To one bowl,
  add almond liquer and almond extract, To the other bowl,add orange
  flavored liquer. Chill 1 hour. Shape into one inch balls.Roll in
  coating. Chill until firm ( 1 hour) Store covered at room temperature
 

 

 
      Title: MINT TRUFFLES
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      1 pk Mint chocolate chips(10oz)
    1/3 c  Whipping cream
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine
      1 pk Chocolate sprinkles(3oz)
 
  1. Melt chips with whipping cream and butter in heavy, medium saucpan
  over low heat, stirring occasionally. Pour into pie pan. Refrigerate
  until mixture is fudgy, but soft, about 2 hours. 2. Shape about 1
  tablespoon of the mixture into 1-1/4 inch ball. To shape, roll
  mixture in your palms. Place ball on waxed paper. 3. Place sprinkles
  in shallow bowl. 4. Roll balls in sprinkles, place in petit four or
  candy cases.( if coating mixture won't stick because truffle has set,
  roll between your palms until outside is soft. 5. Truffles can be
  refrigerated 2-3 days or frozen several weeks. Hint: Truffles are
  coated with cocoa, powdered sugar, nuts, sprinkles or cookie crumbs
  to add flavor and prevent the truffle from melting in your fingers.
  Makes about 24 truffles.
 

 

 
      Title: WHITE CHOCOLATE TRUFFLES
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
      Yield: 36 servings
 
     12 oz White chocolate, coarse chop
    1/3 c  Whipping cream
      2 tb Orange liquer
      1 ts Grated orange zest
  1 1/4 c  Confectioner's sugar
 
  1. Melt white chocolate with whipping cream in heavy, medium saucepan
  over low heat, stirring constantly. Whisk in liquer and zest until
  blended. Pour into pie pan. Refrigerate until mixture is fudgy, but
  soft, about 2 hours., 2. Shape about 1 tablespoon of the mixture into
  1 1/4 inch balls. To shape, roll mixture in your palms.,Place balls
  on waxed paper. 3.Sift sugar into shallow bowl. 4.Roll balls in
  sugar, place in petit four or candy cases. 5. Truffles can be
  refrigerated 2-3 days or frozen several weeks. Makes about 35
  truffles. From Best recipes: Simple, Easy Candy recipes.
 

 

 
      Title: MARBLED TRUFFLES
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
      Yield: 30 servings
 
      6 oz White chocolate,coarse chop
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Semisweet choco chips
      1 tb Butter or margarine
      2 tb Ortange-flavored liquer
    3/4 c  Confectioner's sugar,sift
 
  1. Melt white chocolate with 1/4 cup of the whipping cream and the
  vanilla in heavy, medium saucepan oved low heat, stirring constantly.
  Pour into 9-inch square pan. refrigerate. 2. Melt semisweet chocolate
  chips with butter and remaining 1/4 cup whipping cream in heavy,
  medium saucepan over low heat, stirring constantly. Whisk in liquer.
  3. Pour chocolate mixture over refrigerated white chocolate mixture.
  Refrigerate until mixture is fudgy,but soft, about 1 hour. 4. Shape
  about 1 tablespoonful of the mixture into 1 1/4 inch ball. To shape,
  roll mixture in your palms. Place balls on waxed paper. 5. Sift
  confectioner's sugar into shallow bowl. 6. Roll balls in powdered
  sugar, place in petit four or candy cases( if coating mixture won't
  stick because truffle has set, roll between your palms until outside
  is soft. 7. Truffles can be refrigerated 2-3 days or frozen several
  weeks. Makes about 30 truffles.
 

 

 
      Title: EGGNOG TRUFFLES
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
      Yield: 36 servings
 
--------------------------TRUFFLES-------------------------------
      2 c  Milk chocolate chips
      2 tb Butter or margarine
    1/2 c  Eggnog

-----------------------CHOCOLATE CUPS----------------------------
      2 c  Semisweet choco chips
      1 tb Shortening
 
  CHOCOLATE CUPS: 1. Melt chips with shortening in heavy, small
  saucepan over very low heat, stirring constantly. 2. Spoon about 1/2
  tablespoon of the chocolate mixture into each of about 36 small foil
  candy cups. With back of spoon, bring some of the chocolate up side
  of each cup. Refrigerate until firm. TRUFFLES: 1. Melt chips with
  butter and eggnog in heavy, medium saucepan over low heat, stirring
  occasionally. Pour into pie pan. Refrigerate until mixture is thick,
  but soft, about 2 hours. 2. Spoon truffle mixture into pastry bag
  fitted with large star tip. Pipe mixture into chocolate cups. 3.
  Truffles can be refrigerated 2-3 days or frozen several weeks. Hint:
  To remove foil cups, cut slit in bottom of the cup and peel foil up
  from bottom. Doi not peel down from the top edge. Makes about 36
  truffles.
 

 

 
      Title: CHOCOLATE PRALINE TRUFFLES
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 48 servings
 
           DIANA LEWIS VGWN37A

-----------------------PRALINE POWDER----------------------------
      1 tb Canola oil
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Whole almonds

--------------------------TRUFFLES-------------------------------
      6 oz Semisweet chocolate
    1/4 c  Unsalted butter
  2 1/2 tb Orange liqueur
      2 tb Heavy cream
      1    Orange grated peel

--------------------------COATING-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Unsweetened cocoa
      4 oz Semisweet chocolate
 
  praline powder: oil a cookie sheet and set aside. In a heavy 1 quart
  sauce pan, melt the sugar over low heat cook untill it reaches 310 on
  candy thermometer and begins to carmelize. Add the almondss and
  contunue cooking until candy becomes rich brown. Pour hot mixture on
  to cookie sheet and cool till hard bread into pieces and grind into a
  fine powder, in a blender or food processor. TRUFFLES: Melt chocolate
  over hot water in the top of a double boiler. Stir in butter,
  liqueur, cream orange peel and praline powder. Place mixture in
  fridge and allow to cool until thick enough to shape (about 1 hour)
  Form into balls 1/2 inch in diameter. Place in a single layer on a
  cookie sheet and freeze till firm. COATING: Sprinkle cocoa on a waxed
  lined cookie sheet. Melt chocolate over hot water. Allow to cool to
  luke warm. Put a dollop of luke warm chocolate in your hand and
  quickly roll a frozen truffle in it. Thinly coat each truffle, then
  roll in cocoa. Store in an airtight container. Makes 4 doz.
 

 

 
      Title: WHITE CHOCOLATE-COCONUT TRUFFLES
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
      Yield: 30 servings
 
           -Dottie Cross TMPJ72B
      4 tb (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
      8 oz White chocolate; finely chop
      1 c  Shredded sweetened coconut;
           -divided
      1    Large egg yolk; at room
           -temperature
      2 tb Coconut liqueur or light rum
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
 
  Melt the butter in a heatproof bowl over very hot, not simmering,
  water. Add the white chocolate and melt, stirring occasionally, just
  until smooth. Remove from the heat and whisk in 1/4 cup of the
  coconut, the egg yolk, coconut liqueur, and vanilla. The mixture may
  separate, but keep whisking and it will come together. Cover tightly
  with plastic wrap and refrigerate until firm, at least 3 hours or
  overnight. Using a melon baller, scoop up the mixture and roll into
  1-inch balls. Roll each ball in the remaining coconut, pressing the
  coconut on so it will adhere. Refrigerate until ready to serve. (The
  truffles can be prepared up to 3 days ahead, tightly covered, and
  refrigerated, or frozen for up to 1 month. Makes about 30 truffles.
  Source: "An Edible Christmas" cookbook by Irena Chalmers. Reformatted
  by: CYGNUS, HCPM52C
 

 

 
      Title: SPIRITED TRUFFLES
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 48 servings
 
      5 oz Milk chocolate, chopped
      4 oz Sweet baking chocolate, chop
      1 oz Unsweetened choc, chopped
    3/4 c  Whipping cream
  3 1/2 ts Liqueur*
      6 oz Sweet baking chocolate
      1 tb Veg. Oil
    1/3 c  Cocoa
 
     Place first 3 chocolates  work bowl of food processor or blender;
  finely chop chocolate. Heat cream to just simmering point. With
  machine running, gradually add the cream, mixing until the chocolate
  is melted. Scrape down sides of container to make sure all of the
  chocolate is melted. Blend in liqueur. *Use whatever flavor liqueur
  you wish; suggestions are: rasberry, almond, peppermint or orange
  liqueurs.
     Cover a cookie sheet with wax paper; butter paper. Spoon mixture
  into a thin layer onto cookie sheet. Refrigerate until chocolate is
  firm, about 30 minutes. Return to a work bowl or blender. Process
  until light and fluffy, about 30 seconds. Spread on cookie sheet
  again and refrigerate until choc. can be formed into balls, but is
  not hard, about 20 minutes. Carefully shape inti 1-inch balls. Freeze
  until firm.    Melt 6 ounces sweet baking chocolate in small heavy
  saucepan over low heat. Dip frozen chocolate balls into melted
  chocolate to coat. Place on wax paper-lined baking sheet. Sprinkle
  lightly with cocoa. Keep frozen til ready to serve. Yeild 5 dozen.
  Source: newpaper, newsletter Feb '90
 

 

 
      Title: TOO-EASY TRUFFLES
 Categories: Desserts, Candies
      Yield: 60 servings
 
           -Dottie Cross TMPJ72B
  1 1/2 pk (12 ounces) Baker's semi-
           -sweet chocolate
      1 pk (8 oz) cream cheese; softene
      3 c  Powdered sugar
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
           Ground nuts or Baker's Angel
           -Flake coconut, toasted
 
  Melt chocolate by placing in microwavable dish. Microwave on HIGH 3
  to 4 minutes or until almost melted, stirring after each minute.
  Remove from microwave. Stir until completely melted. Beat cream
  cheese until smooth. Gradually add sugar, beating until well blended.
  Add melted chocolate and vanilla; mix well. Refrigerate about 1 hour.
  Shape into 1-inch balls. Roll in nuts or coconut. Store in
  refrigerator. Makes about 5 dozen truffles. Variation: To flavor
  truffles with liqueurs, omit vanilla. Divide truffle mixture into
  thirds. Add 1 tablespoon liqueur (almond, coffee or orange) to each
  third mixture; mix well. Source: Orange County Daily Pilot Newspaper
  Reformatted by: CYGNUS, HCPM52C
 

 

 
      Title: CAPPUCCINO TRUFFLES
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 60 servings
 
      2 tb Instant coffee
      2 tb Orange juice
      2 tb Brandy flavoring
      7 oz Marshmallow creme
      3 c  Crushed chocolate wafers
      1 c  Chopped pecans
      2 tb Orange peel
      2 tb Cocoa
      2 tb Confectioner's sugar
           Coconut to coat
 
    Dissolve coffee in combined juice and flavorings. Gradually add to
  marshmallow creme with mixer. Add crumbs, pecans and peel. Shape into
  1-inch balls. Roll half of balls in combined cocoa and confectioner's
  sugar. Roll remaining balls in coconut. Makes about 5 dozen.
 

 

 
      Title: LOGOZZO'S CHOCOLATE TRUFFLES
 Categories: Desserts, Chocolate, Candies
      Yield: 36 servings
 
-----------------------I.E.S.JJGF65A----------------------------

----------------------PHILLY.INQUIRER---------------------------
  1 2/3 c  Heavy cream
      2    Unsalted butter; sticks
     16 oz Semisweet chocolate; cut in
           To small pieces
      1 ts Vanilla flavoring; or to
           Taste
           Cocoa
 
    Bring cream and butter to a boil in medium saucepan.Remove from
  heat and add chocolate.Allow to sit for 5 minutes.Stir until
  smooth.Add vanilla.Let cool in refrigerator,and stir with whisk every
  15 minutes or so until very thick.Chill until firm..
    Using melon baller or small spoon,scoop out tablespoon sized
  portions,and place on sheet sprinkled with cocoa.Place in
  refrigerator to harden.Using palms of hands,gently and quickly roll
  each portion of chocolate into a ball.Chill again to harden..
    Roll each truffle in powdered cocoa,finely chopped nuts,or dip into
  melted chocolate.Store in airtight container in refrigerator.Make
  about 3 dozen..
 

 

 
      Title: BAKER'S TRUFFLES
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      3    Sqs. BAKER'S Semi-Sweet
           -Chocolate
      5 tb Unsalted Butter
      1    Egg Yolk
    2/3 c  Confectioner's Sugar;
           -sifted
      1 ts Vanilla
           Nuts; finely chopped OR
           BAKER'S ANGEL FLAKE Coconut
 
  Melt chocolate in saucepan over very low heat, stirring constantly;
  cool. Cream butter with egg yolk. Gradually add sugar, blending well.
  Stir in chocolate and vanilla. Chill until firm enough to handle.
  Shape into balls about 1" in diameter.  Roll in nuts; chill. Store in
  refrigerator. Makes about 30 candies. I haven't tried this recipe.
  It's from BAKER'S All-Natural Semi-Sweet Chocolate.  Marilyn Sultar
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate-Date Log
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Nancy Speicher DPXX20A
      1 lb Pitted dates
    2/3 c  Walnuts; coarsely chopped
    1/4 c  Candied red cherries;chopped
      5    Pieces candied ginger
           -finely chopped (3 tb)
      2 tb Sugar
      4 oz Semisweet chocolate squares
      1 c  Walnuts; chopped
 
   1. Grind dates through finest blade of meat grinder, or chop very
  fine in blender or food processor.
   2. Combine dates, 2/3 c nuts, the candied cherries and ginger. Turn
  out on breadboard sprinkled with sugar. Knead with hands to blend
  thoroughly.
   3. Form into a roll, 2" thick & about 9" long. Wrap in waxed paper;
  refrigerate at least 1 hour before coating with chocolate.
   4. In top of double boiler, melt chocolate over hot, not boiling,
  water. Pour over date roll, spreading to coat evenly all over. Roll
  in chopped walnuts. Refrigerate until chocolate is hard.
   5. To serve, cut into thin slices. Makes 1 log, about 1 3/4 lbs.
   Source: McMcall's Cookery, No. 13
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Fudge Variations
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Nancy Speicher DPXX20A
      3 c  Sugar
      1    Env unflavored gelatin
      1 c  Milk
      3 oz Unsweetened chocolate (sqs)
  1 1/4 c  Butter or margarine
      2 ts Vanilla extract
      1 c  Walnuts; coarsely chopped*
 
  *For delightful variations, in place of walnuts stir in 1 cup of any
  of the following: coarsely chopped pecans, coconut, whole toasted
  almonds, party mints, butter mints or crushed peanut brittle.
   1. Butter an 8x8x2" pan.
   2. In a 3 1/2-quart saucepan, mix sugar with dry gelatin. Add milk,
  corn syrup, chocolate and butter.
   3. Cook over medium heat, stirring frequently, to 238F on candy
  thermometer, or until a little in cold water forms a soft ball that
  flattens when removed from water.
   4. Remove from heat; pour into a large mixing bowl. Stir in vanilla.
  Cool 25 minutes.
   5. Beat with wooden spoon until candy thickens. Stir in walnuts.
  Spread in prepared pan. Let cool; then cut into squares. Makes about
  2 1/2 lbs.
   Source: McCall's Cookery No. 13
 

 

 
      Title: Almond Butter Crunch
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Nuts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Nancy Speicher DPXX20A
  1 1/2 c  Whole blanched almonds;
           -chopped (12 oz)
      1 c  Butter or margarine
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      3 tb Light corn syrup
      3 tb Water
      8 oz Semisweet chocolate squares
 
   1. Place chopped almonds on a cooky sheet; toast in moderate oven
  (375F) 10 minutes, or until lightly golden.
   2. Combine butter or margarine, sugar, corn syrup and water in a
  medium-size heavy saucepan. Cook over medium heat, stirring
  constantly, to 300F on candy thermometer. (A teaspoonful of syrup
  will separate into brittle threads when dropped in cold water.)
  Remove from heat; stir in 1 cup of the toasted almonds. Pour into a
  buttered 13x9x2" pan, spreading quickly and evenly; cool. Turn out
  onto wax paper.
   3. Melt chocolate squares in the top of a double boiler over hot
  water; remove from heat. Spread half the melted chocolate over top of
  candy; sprinkle with 1/4 cup nuts; let set for about 20 minutes; turn
  candy over and spread with remaining chocolate and sprinkle with
  remaining nuts. Let stand until set. Break into pieces.
   Makes l pound.
   From Family Circle 11/72 Homemade Candies
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Creams
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 60 servings
 
           -Nancy Speicher DPXX20A
      1 pk Semi-sweet chocolate (8 sqs)
      1 c  Sifted confectioners sugar
      1    Egg; well beaten
      1 tb Milk
           Assorted decorations*
 
   * Use 1/3 c angel flake coconut, 1/4 c chocolate or colored decors or
  colored sugar crystals, and 1/3 c finely chopped almonds or pecan
  halves
   Melt chocolate in saucepan over very low heat; stirring constantly.
  Remove from heat. Add sugar, egg and milk; beat until smooth. Chill
  until firm enough to handle, about 30 min. Shape into 1/2" balls,
  ovals or logs. Roll in decorations. (Pacan halves may be pressed into
  confection tops instead of rolling confections in chopped almonds.)
   From Baker's Collections of Riches
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Fondant
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 36 servings
 
           -Nancy Speicher  DPXX20A
      2 c  Sugar
      2 tb Light corn syrup
    1/2 c  Water
      2    1-oz squares unsweetened
           -chocolate, melted & cooled
     18    Pecan halves
      3 oz White chocolate
 
   In medium-size deep saucepan mix sugar, corn syrup and water. Bring
  to boil over medium heat, stirring to dissolve sugar. When boiling,
  wash sugar crystals from side of pan with pastry brush dipped in
  water. Set candy thermometer in pan and boil syrup without stirring
  to 242F (firm ball stage). Rinse large platter in cold water but do
  not dry. Pour syrup on platter but do not scrape pan. Let stand 5
  minutes or until surface feels just warm, moving platter a few times
  to cool surface. Work candy with spatula or wooden spoon, scraping to
  center of platter, until white and fim. Scrape from platter into
  heavy or doubled plastic bags. Add melted unsweetened chocolate.
  Close bag and knead until candy is well mixed, smooth, and clings
  together. Shape in 1" balls. Press pecan halves into half the balls.
  Coat remaining balls: Melt white chocolate in small saucepan over
  very low heat, stirring occasionally. (Do not overheat ~ chocolate
  will separate.) Spear fondant balls on fork and dip into white
  chocolate. Tap fork against rim of pan to knock off excess chocolate.
  Place balls on waxed paper to cool. Store airtight in cool, dry
  place. Keeps about 1 month.
   From Woman's Day November 15, 1977
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Toffee
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Nancy Speicher DPXX20A
      1 c  Butter or margarine
  1 1/4 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Baking soda
      6 oz Semisweet chocolate pieces
    3/4 c  Pecans or walnuts;
           -finely chopped
 
   1. Line a 15-1/2 x 10-1/2 x 1" jellyroll pan with foil; lightly
  butter foil.
   2. In medium size heavy saucepan, combine butter and sugar, over
  medium heat, stir until mixture starts to boil.
   3. Simmer over low heat, covered, 3 minutes.
   4. Remove cover; continue cooking, stirring occasionally, to 290F on
  candy thermometer, or until a little dropped into very cold water
  separates into threads that are hard but not brittle.
   5. Remove from heat; quickly stir in soda. Pour onto preparaed pan.
   6. Sprinkle with semisweet chocolate pieces; let stand a few minutes
  to melt chocolate.
   7. With spatula, spread chocolate over entire surface; sprinkle with
  nuts.
   8. Refrigerate until firm - about 2 hours.
   9. Peel off foil; break candy into large pieces. Makes 1 lb.
   From McCalls Cookery No. 13
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate-Glazed Caramels
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 32 servings
 
           -Nancy Speicher DPXX20A
      1 c  Granulated sugar
    1/2 c  Light-brown sugar; packed
    1/2 c  Light corn syrup
    1/2 c  Heavy cream
      1 c  Milk
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine
      2 ts Vanilla extract
  1 1/2 c  Chopped pecans; coarsely
           -chopped (6 oz can)
    1/2    Bar German sweet chocolate
           -(4 oz size)
           Walnut halves; optional
 
   1. Line a 9x5x3" loaf pan with foil. Lightly butter foil.
   2. In a heavy, 2 1/2-qt saucepan, combined granulated & brown
  sugars, corn syrup, cream, milk & butter.
   3. Cook, stirring with wooden spoon, over low heat until sugar is
  dissolved.
   4. Over medium heat, cook, stirring occasionally, to 240 to 245F on
  candy thermometer, or until a little in cold water forms a firm ball,
  like caramel. Do not overcook.
   5. Remove from heat; stir in vanilla and nuts. Turn into prepared
  pan; let cool.
   6. Melt chocolate in double-boiler top, over hot, not boiling, water.
  Spread over mixture.  Refrigerate to allow the chocolate to harden.
  With warm knife, cut into 32 pieces (4 x 8). If desire, decorate each
  piece with a walnut half.
   From McCalls Cookery No. 13.
 

 

 
      Title: Coconut Crescents
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 30 servings
 
           -Nancy Speicher DPXX20A
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      2 tb -water
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      2 c  Confectioners' sugar; sifted
    1/2 c  Instant nonfat dry milk
      2    Cans(3 1/2 oz size) flaked
           -coconut (2 2/3 cups)
      4    Squares semisweet chocolate
      1 tb Shortening
 
   1. Melt butter in saucepan. Add water and vanilla.
   2. Combine confectioners' sugar and dry milk. Stir into butter
  mixture, 1/2 cup at a time, mixing well after each addition. Blend in
  coconut.
   3. For each candy, shape about 1 tbsp mixture into a roll 2" long;
  curve to make a crescent. Refrigerate until firm - 15 minutes.
   4. Melt chocolate and shortening over hot, not boiling, water.
  Remove from hot water; let stand to cool slightly.
   5. Dip half of each piece of candy into chocolate. Place on waxed
  paper to dry. Refrigerate until firm.
 

 

 
      Title: Creamy Chocolate-Pecan Fudge
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 150 servings
 
           -Nancy Speicher DPXX20A
      8    1-oz sqs semisweet chocolate
           -chopped coarse
      8    1-oz sqs unsweetened choc.
           -chopped coarse
  7 1/2 oz Jar marshmallow cream
      2 c  Pecans; coarsely chopped
     13 oz Evaporated milk
      4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Butter or margarine
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 tb Vanilla
           Pecan halves (optional)
 
   Place chocolate, marshmallow cream and pecan in large bowl; set
  aside. In large heavy saucepan combine milk, sugar, butter and salt.
  Bring to boil, stirring; boil slowly 9 minutes. Pour at once over
  chocolate mixture; add vanilla. With wooden spoon stir vigorously
  until chocolate is melted and mixture creamy. Pour into buttered
  15x10x1" pan or large tray lined with waxed paper. Smooth top.
  Garnish with pecan halves. Chill until firm. Cut into 1" squares.
   Per square without pecan garnish: 57 cal, 1 g pro, 8 g car, 3 g fat,
  1 mg chol with butter, 0 mg chol with margarine.
   From Woman's Day/November 22, 1979
 

 

 
      Title: Date-and-Nut Roll
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Nancy Speicher DPXX20A
      3 c  Sugar
      1 c  Evaporated milk
      3 tb Butter or margarine
      3 tb Light corn syrup
      1 c  Dates; chopped
      1 c  Pecans or walnuts; chopped
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      6 oz Semisweet chocolate pieces
 
   1. In heavy, 3-qt saucepan, combine sugar, milk, butter and corn
  syrup. cook over low heat, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon,
  until sugar dissolves & mixutre comes to boiling; add dates.
   2. Cook, stirring occasionally, until candy thermometer registers
  238F, or until a little in cold water forms a soft ball.
   3. Remove from heat. Add nuts & vanilla. Beat until thick. Turn out
  on board; divide in half. Shape each half into a roll 1 3/4" in
  diameter; wrap in waxed paper; refrigerate at least 1 hour before
  coating with chocolate.
   4. In top of double boiler, melt chocolate pieces over hot, not
  boiling, water. Remove from heat.
   5. Remove date rolls from refrigerator; spread half of chocolate
  over each roll; spreading to coat evenly all over. refrigerate until
  chocolate is hard; wrap in waxed paper until ready to cut into slices
  1/3" thick. Makes 2 1/4 lbs.
   From McCalls Cookery No. 13
 

 

 
      Title: Easy No-Beat Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Nuts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Nancy Speicher DPXX20A
  1 1/3 c  Sugar
    2/3 c  Evaporated milk (small can)
      3 tb Butter or margarine
      3 pk Semi-sweet chocolate pieces
           -6 oz each
      3 c  Miniature marshmallows
    1/2 c  Chopped walnuts
    1/2 c  Candied cherries; halved
 
   1. Combine sugar, milk and butter or margarine in a medium-size heavy
  saucepan; heat to boiling over medium heat, stirring constantly; cook
  for 6 minutes, or until candy thermometer reaches 227F.
   2. Remove from heat; add chocolate pieces and marshmallows; stir
  until chocolate and marshmallows are melted and mixture is smooth;
  quickly stir in walnuts and cherries.
   3. Spoon into buttered 8x8x2" pan; let stand until set; cut into
  squares. You may press this fudge into tiny tart pans, then decorate
  with nuts.
   Makes about 3 pounds.
   From Family Circle 11/72 Homemade Candies
 

 

 
      Title: Peanut-Butter Bonbons
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 48 servings
 
           -Nancy Speicher DPXX20A
      4 ts Butter or margarine
      2 tb Evaporated milk
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
        ds Salt
      2 c  Sifted confectioners' sugar
      1 c  Creamy peanut butter
      1 tb Dark corn syrup
      6 oz Semisweet chocolate pieces
      1 tb Shortening
 
   1. In 3-quart saucepan, over low heat, melt butter. Stir in
  evaporated milk, vanilla, and salt; mix well. Remove from heat.
   2. Gradually add 1 1/2 cups confectioners' sugar, stirring until
  mixture is thick and smooth. Add peanut butter and corn syrup; mix
  well.
   3. Turn out onto board lightly sprinkled with remaining
  confectioners' sugar. Knead until consistency of fondant.
   4. Form slightly rounded teaspoons of dough into balls.
   5. In top of double boiler, melt chocolate and shortening over hot,
  not boiling, water. Remove from heat.
   6. Using toothpick, dip balls into chocolate just until half covered.
  Place on waxed paper. Refrigerate until firm. Makes 48 balls.
   From McCalls Cookery No. 13.
 

 

 
      Title: Rich Chocolate Caramels
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Nancy Speicher DPXX20A
      1 c  Granulated sugar
      1 c  Brown sugar; packed
    1/2 c  Corn syrup
    1/2 c  Half-and-half
      2    Sq. unsweetened chocolate;
           -1 oz each
      2 tb Butter or margarine;
           -cut in pieces
      1 ts Vanilla
 
   Place sugars, corn syrup, half-and-half and chocolate in large heavy
  saucepan. Bring to boil, stirring to melt chocolate and dissolve
  sugar. Reduce heat to moderate and continue cooking, stirring
  occasionally, until syrup reaches 248F on candy thermometer
  (firm-ball stage). Remove from heat. Quickly stir in butter and
  vanilla just until blended and butter melts. Pour into well-greased
  8x8x2" pan. Cool; cut in small squares. If desired, top each square
  with pecan half or almond slivers. Wrap individually in plastic wrap
  or foil. Store in cool, dry place. Makes about 1-1/2 pounds.
   From Woman's Day 3/15/79 Collector's Cookbook - Chocolate
 

 

 
      Title: Candy Bar/breakfast Bar
 Categories: Low-cal, Candies, Ww
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk Alba or WW Chocolate Drink
      2 tb Coffee
      1 tb Peanut Butter
      2 tb Raisins
      2 tb Oatmeal
 
  Mix all together; place on plastic wrap. Shape into a log. Freeze.
  Cut in slices. WW exchanges: 1 milk, 1 fruit, 1 bread, 1 protein, 1
  fat. Formatted for you by Joyce Burton....PDPP83A.
 

 

 
      Title: MOUNDS MACAROONS
 Categories: Cookies, Desserts
      Yield: 20 servings
 
      1 c  All purpose flour
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
    2/3 c  Sugar
      1 pk Cream cheese (3 oz)
           -room temperature
    1/4 c  Unsalted butter (1/2 stick)
           -room temperature
      1 lg Egg
      1 ts Vanilla extract
    3/4 ts Almond extract
    1/2 ts Orange peel; grated
  3 3/4 c  Shredded sweetened coconut;
           -(ab. 12 ounces)
  1 1/2 c  Mounds bars (1/2-inch pieces
           -(ab. 7 1/2 oz)
      4 oz Semisweet chocolate; chopped
 
  SINCE THIS IS A FIRM DOUGH, THE MXCAROONS WILL HOLD THEIR SHAPE DURING
  BAKING AND PRODUCE LARGE MOUND-SHAPED COOKIES (ABOVE CENTER) -
  APPREPRIATE SINCE THEY CONTAIN PIECES OF MOUNDS CANDY BARS. Preheat
  oven to 275 deg. Line 2 cookie sheets with parchment paper. Combine
  flour, baking powder and salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer,
  beat sugar, cream cheese and butter in large bowl until fluffy. Beat
  in egg, vanilla, almond extract and orange peel. Add flour mixture
  and mix just until combined. Sir in 2 1/2 cups coconut. Add Mounds
  pieces and stir until combined.
  
  Spread 1 1/4 cups coconut on plate. Using 2 tablespoons dough for each
  cookie, roll dough into 1 1/2-inch rounds. Roll each round in coconut.
  Arrange rounds 2 inches apart on prepared cookie sheets. Bake until
  cookies are puffed and coconut is light golden. about 35 minutes.
  Cool on cookie sheets 5 min. Transfer to racks; cool completely.
  
  Stir chocolate in top of double boiler set over simmering water until
  melted and smooth. Remove from heat. Dip fork into melted chocolate
  and drizzle lines of chocolate across tops of cookies. Refrigerate
  cookies until chocolate sets, about 30 minutes.  (Can be prepared 3
  days ahead. Refrigerate in airtight containers.) Serve cold or at
  room temperature. Makes about 20.
 

 

 
      Title: HEATH BAR BROWNIE SUNDAES/CARAMEL SAUCE-Pt 1 o
 Categories: Ice cream, Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -Don Fifield XKGR41A

-------------------------ICE CREAM------------------------------
      1 qt Vanilla ice cream
      1 c  Heath bars;chopped (ab.6 oz)

-----------------------CARAMEL SAUCE----------------------------
  1 1/3 c  Whipping cream
      1 c  Sugar
      3 tb Water
      2 tb Unsalted butter (1/4 stick)
           -cut into 4 pieces

--------------------------BROWNIES-------------------------------
      1 c  Unsalted butter (2 sticks)
           -cut into 1/2-inch pieces
      8 oz Semisweet chocolate; chopped
      2 oz Unsweetened chocolate;
           -chopped
      3 lg Egg
      1 c  Sugar
      2 ts Vanilla extract
    3/4 c  All purpose flour
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Heath bar + 2 tb
           -ab. 6 1/2 ounces
 
  FOR ICE CREAM:  Place ice cream in medium bowl and soften slightly at
  room temperature. Stir in chopped Heath bars. Cover bowl with plastic
  wrap and freeze. (Can be prepared 3 days ahead)
  
  FOR CARAMEL SAUCE:  Bring whipping cream to simmer in heavy small
  saucepan. Set aside. Combine sugar and 3 tablespoons water in heavy
  medium saucepan. Stir over medlium heat until sugar dissolves.
  Increase heat to high and boil without stirring until caramel is deep
  amber color. brushing down sides of pan with wet pastry brush if
  sugar crystals form and occasionally swirling pan, about 8 min.
  Remove from heat and slowly add warm whipping cream (mixture will
  bubble vigorously). Return sauce to low heat and stir until smooth.
  Remove from heat and mix in butter. (Can be prepared 3 days ahead.
  Cover and refrigerate.)
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Chip Squares
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Firmly Packed Brown Sugar
    1/2 c  Margarine Softened
      1    Large Egg
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Unbleached Flour
    1/2 c  Rolled Oats
      1 ts Baking Powder
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Semisweet Chocolate Chips
    1/4 c  Chopped Nuts
 
  Grease bottom only of square baking dish, 8 x 8 x 2-inches.  Mix brown
  sugar, margarine, egg, and vanilla.  Stir in flour, oats, baking
  powder, and salt.  Spread evenly in baking dish.  Sprinkle with
  chocolate chips and nuts. Microwave uncovered on high (100%), 4
  minutes; turn dish one-quarter turn. Microwave until no longer
  doughy, 2 to 3 minutes. Cool; cut into about 2 inch squares. Makes 16
  Cookies
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Pots De Creme
 Categories: Chocolate, Desserts
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/2 c  Light Cream
      2 oz German Cooking Chocolate *
  1 1/2 ts Sugar
           Dash Salt
      2    Large Beaten Egg Yolks
    1/4 ts Vanilla
           Whipped Cream (Opt.)
 
  *    German cooking chocolate should be coarsely chopped.
  ~---------------------------------------------------------------------
  ~-- In a small nonmetal bowl stir together light cream, chopped
  chocolate, sugar and salt.  Micro-cook, uncovered, on 100% power
  about 1 1/2 minutes or till chocolate is melted, stirring every 30
  seconds.  Stir about HALF of the hot mixture into the beaten egg
  yolks.  Return all to the bowl, mixing well.  Micro-cook, uncovered,
  on 50% power for 2 to 3 minutes or till thickened, stirring every 30
  seconds.  Stir in vanilla.  Pour into 2 pot de creme cups or 6-ounce
  custard cups.  Cover and chill for several hours or till firm.
  Garnish with whipped cream, if desired. NOTE: ~---- SELECTING THE
  RIGHT CHOCOLATE:  You'll find three basic types of chocolate in the
  baking supplies department of most supermarkets--semisweet chocolate,
  unsweetened chocolate, and sweet chocolate.  The semisweet chocolate
  is made from chocolate that is just slightly sweetened with sugar.
  Unsweetened chocolate is the original baking or cooking chocolate and
  has no added flavorings or sugar.  And sweet chocolate, such as the
  German cooking chocolate used in the Chocolate Pots de Creme recipe,
  is chocolate mixed with sugar and sometimes additional cocoa butter
  or flavorings.
 

 

 
      Title: Caramel Brownies
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 25 servings
 
     14 oz Caramels
    1/3 c  Evaporated milk
      8 oz German sweet chocolate
      6 tb Butter
      4    Eggs
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  Flour (sifted)
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Vanilla
      6 oz Chocolate chips
      1 c  Chopped walnuts
 
  1.  Preheat oven to 350.  Grease and flour a 9 x 13 baking pan.
  Combine caramels and evaporated milk in top of double boiler over low
  heat.  Cover and simmer until caramels are melted, stirring
  occasionally.  Set aside, keeping warm. 2. Combine German sweet
  chocolate and butter in 2 quart saucepan.  Place over low heat
  stirring occasionally until melted. Remove from heat.  Cool to room
  temperature. 3. Beat eggs until foamy using electric mixer at high
  speed.  Gradually add sugar, beating until mixture is thick and lemon
  colored. 4. Sift together flour, baking powder and salt. Add to egg
  mixture mixing well. Blend in cooled chocolate mixture and vanilla.
  5. Spread half of mixture into prepared baking pan. Bake for 6
  minutes. Remove from oven and spread caramel mixture carefully over
  baked layer. Sprinkle with chocolate chips. 6. Stir 1/2 cup of
  walnuts into remaining chocolate batter.  Spread batter by spoonfuls
  over the caramel layer.  Sprinkle with remaining nuts. 7. Bake for 20
  minutes. Cool in pan on rack.  Refridgerate before cutting into bars
  or squares. These brownies are very difficult to cut if not chilled
  first. from: _Cookiemania_
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate marshmallow bars
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      2 oz Unsweetened chocolate
    1/2 c  Butter
      1 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Flour
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Chopped pecans
     16    Large marshmallows
 
  1.  Preheat oven to 350.  Grease an 11 1/2 x 7 baking pan.  Melt
  chocolate and butter in top of double boiler over hot water.  Set
  aside. 2. Cream sugar and eggs until light and fluffy.  Add flour.
  Beat.  Add melted chocolate and butter.  Beat well.  Mix in vanilla
  and pecans. 3. Pour into prepared pan.  Bake 18 minutes.  Remove from
  oven and cover with marshmallows.  Return to oven and bake until
  marshmallows are lightly browned. 4. Cool slightly and cut into bars.
  from: _Cookiemania_
 

 

 
      Title: Fudge brownies
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 36 servings
 
      1 c  Butter
      4 oz Unsweetened chocolate
      4    Eggs
           Pinch salt
      2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Sifted flour
      1 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Chopped pecans
 
  1. Preheat oven to 325. Grease a 9" square baking pan. Melt butter and
  chocolate in small saucepan over low heat. Stir to blen and set aside
  to cool.
  
  2. Beat eggs until light yellow; add salt, sugar, flour, and paking
  powder. Beat well. Blend in cooled chocolate, vanilla and pecans.
  Blend thouroughly.
  
  3. Pour into prepared pan and bake 35-45 minutes or until knife
  inserted in center comes out clean. Cool before cutting. from:
  _Cookiemania_
 

 

 
      Title: White chocolate brownies
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      6 tb Unsalted butter
      8 oz Grated white chocolate
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 tb Vanilla
      1 c  Flour
      1 c  Heaped semi-sweet choc chunk
 
  1.  Preheat oven to 350.  Grease and flour an 8 inch square baking
  pan. Melt butter and 4 oz of white chocolate together in top of
  double boiler over hot water.  When melted remove from heat and add
  balance of white chocolate.  Stir to blend well.  Set aside. 2. Beat
  eggs. Add sugar. Beat 2-3 minutes.  Add white chocolate and butter
  mixture, vanilla and flour. Beat just until smooth.  Add chocolate
  chunks and mix in by hand -- do not beat. 3. Pour into prepared pan
  and bake 35 minutes or until toothpick inserted in center comes out
  clean. Cool on wire rack. Cut into squares or bars. from:
  _Cookiemania_
 

 

 
      Title: Mexican Chocolate Sauce
 Categories: Mexican, Desserts, Sauces
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      4 oz Unsweetened chocolate
      2 tb Butter or margarine
    1/4 c  Light corn syrup
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1    Dash salt(optional)
    1/4 c  Kahlua
    1/4 c  Cream
 
  In top of double boiler combine all ingredients and cook, stirring
  constantly for 10 minutes. Serve over pound cake or ice cream. To
  store, pour into a jar and cover. Sauce keeps in refrigerator up tp 3
  months. To warm sauce, set jar in pan of hot water over low heat.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Mint Baked Custard
 Categories: Chocolate, Mint, Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Milk; Divided
      1 c  Mint-Chocolate Chips;Nestles
      1 c  Sweetened Condensed Milk
      2    Eggs; Large
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.  In a small saucepan, combine 1/2 c
  milk and the mint-chocolate chips.  Cook over low heat, stirring
  constantly, until chips are melted and mixture is smooth.  Set aside.
  In a large bowl, combine remaining 1 c of milk, condensed milk, and
  eggs; beat until well blended.  Add chocolate mixture; beat well.
  Pour into a 1-quart casserole. Fill a 13 x 9 x 2-inch baking pan with
  4 cups of water.  Place casserole in baking pan.  Bake at 350 degrees
  F. for 50 to 55 minutes. Serve warm or cool completely.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Mint Baked Alaska
 Categories: Mint, Chocolate, Desserts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Mint-Chocolate Chips;Nestles
      3 ts Butter
  1 1/2 c  Chocolate Wafer Crumbs

--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      1 c  Mint-Chocolate Chips;Nestles
      2 tb Corn Syrup
      2 tb Heavy Cream
      3 pt Vanilla Ice Cream; Softened

--------------------------MERINGUE-------------------------------
      4    Egg Whites; Large
    1/2 ts Cream Of Tartar
    3/4 c  Sugar
 
  CRUST: Combine over hot (not boiling) water, 1/2 cup mint-chocolate
  chips and butter. Stir until chips are melted and mixture is smooth.
  Add chocolate wafer crumbs; stir until well blended. Press into
  bottom of 9-inch springform pan; freeze until firm. FILLING: Combine
  over hot (not boiling) water, remaining 1 cup of chips, corn syrup,
  and heavy cream. Stir until chips are melted and mixture is smooth.
  Cool to room temperature. In a large bowl, whip the ice cream until
  smooth but not melted. Gradually stir in chocolate mixture (flecks
  will appear in ice cream). Spoon into center of crust, mounding high
  in center and leaving 3/4-inch edge. Using spatula, smooth to form
  dome. Freeze until firm. Remove sides of pan. Preheat oven to 450
  degrees F. MERINGUE: In a large bowl, combine egg whites and cream of
  tartar; beat until soft peaks form. Gradually add sugar, beat until
  stiff peaks form.  Spread meringue over ice cream and crust to cover
  completely; swirl to decorate. Bake at 450 degrees F. for 4 to 6
  minutes or until lightly browned.  Serve IMMEDIATELY !
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Mint Ice Cream
 Categories: Mint, Chocolate, Desserts
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Heavy Cream
      1 c  Milk
    1/3 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 c  Mint-Chocolate Chips;Nestles
      2    Egg Yolks; Large
    1/8 ts Salt
 
  In heavy guage saucepan, combine 1 1/4 cups heavy cream, milk, sugar
  and 1 cup of mint chocolate chips.  Cook over low heat, stirring with
  wire whisk, until chips are melted and mixture is smooth.  Remove
  from heat. In a medium bowl, beat egg yolks and salt until thick.
  Gradually add chocolate mixture, beat until well blended. Chill 30
  minutes.  In a small heavy guage saucepan, combine remaining 1/2 cup
  of chips and 1/4 cup of heavy cream. Cook over low heat, stirring
  constantly, until chips are melted and mixture is smooth. Remove from
  heat and set aside.  Pour chilled chocolate/egg mixture into an
  electric iceream freezer; churn until thick, about 25 minutes.  Pour
  in reserved chocolate mixture; churn 10 seconds more. Remove dahser;
  cover and store in freeze until ready to serve.
 

 

 
      Title: Neither Cake Nor Candy (Brownies)
 Categories: Penndutch, Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2    Chocolate, unsweetened, squa
           -e
      2 tb Butter
      1 c  Sugar
      2    Egg, well beaten
    1/2 c  Flour
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Raisins, chopped
    1/2 c  Nuts, chopped
 
  Melt chocolate and butter together over hot water. Add the sugar and
  vanilla; mix well. Then add the well beaten eggs. Sift the flour and
  stir in with the nuts and raisins. Bake in a well-greased shallow pan
  at 350-F for 20 minutes. When cool, cut in squares.
  
  Source:  Pennsylvania Dutch Cook Book - Fine Old Recipes, Culinary
  Arts Press, 1936.
 

 

 
      Title: Quick Pots de Creme
 Categories: Desserts, Londontowne
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      1 c  Milk
      1    Egg
      1 ts Rum
      6 oz Semi-sweet chocolate bits
      2 tb Sugar
           Pinch salt
 
  Heat milk to boiling point. Place all other ingredients in an electric
  blender, and add hot milk. Blend at low speed one minute. Stir with a
  rubber spatula to remove bubbles. Pour into pot de creme cups and
  chill several hours before serving. Mrs. Thomas H. Morton
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Chip Cheesecake Dip
 Categories: Cheese, Desserts, Dips, Fruits
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Raisins
      2 c  Cream Cheese; Softened
    1/2 ts Vanilla Extract
      1 ts Cinnamon; Ground
           Cinnamon; Ground
      1 tb Brandy
    1/2 c  Whipping Cream
    1/4 c  Dark Brown Sugar
    1/2 c  Mini Chocolate Chips
 
  ~-----------------------------GARNISH---------------------------------
  Mix the raisins and brandy (making sure all the raisins are coated)
  and let soak for 15 minutes.  In another bowl, beat the cream cheese
  and whipping cream until well blended and smooth.  Add the vanilla,
  mixing well. Blend in the brown sugar and cinnamon.  Mix in the
  "slushed" raisins and chocolate chips, blending well.  Garnish with a
  light dusting of cinnamon. Serve at room temperature. Makes about 3
  3/4 cups of dip. SUGGESTED DIPPERS:  Graham Crackers, Honeydew Melon,
  Strawberries, Peaches, Dried Fruit, Pound Cake Cubes
 

 

 
      Title: Creme de Menthe Brownies
 Categories: Desserts, Chocolate
      Yield: 48 servings
 
      4    Chocolate -1 oz squares
      4    Eggs
      1 c  Flour
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      4 c  Powdered sugar - sifted
    1/4 c  Half and half
      1 c  Walnuts - finely chopped
      1 c  Butter or margarine
      2 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Chocolate morsels, melted
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine- melted
    1/4 c  Creme de Menthe - green
 
    Combine unsweetened chocolate and butter in a small, heavy
  saucepan; cook over low heat, stirring constantly, until melted.  Let
  stand 10 minutes.
    Beat eggs at medium speed of an electric mixer until thick and lemon
  colored; gradually add sugar, beating well.  Add flour, salt,
  vanilla, and chocolate mixture; beat at low speed 1 minute.
    Spoon mixture into a lightly greased and floured 13x9x2 inch pan.
  Bake at 350F for 25 to 30 minutes or until a wooden pick inserted in
  center comes out clean.  Cool 10 minutes; spread Creme de Menthe
  Frosting (see below) over top.  Chill at least 4 hours.
    Drizzle melted chocolate over frosting or pipe in desired design
  using metal tip No.3 or 4.  Cut into bars immediately.  Remove from
  pan, and chill at least 1 hour.  Store in an airtight container in
  refrigerator. Yield 4 dozen.
    -----  Creme de Menthe Frosting -----
    Combine all ingredients except walnuts in a mixing bowl; beat at
  high speed of an electric mixer until smooth.  Stir in walnuts.
  Yield: enough for 4 dozen bars. From the Southern Living Cookbook
 

 

 
      Title: Cream Cheese Swirl Brownies
 Categories: Chocolate, Desserts
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      4 oz Chocolate -sweet baking
      2 tb Butter /margarine - softened
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 tb Flour - all purpose
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Flour - all purpose
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Almond extract
      3 tb Butter or margarine
      3 oz Cream cheese - softened
      1    Egg
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
    3/4 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Vanilla extract
    1/2 c  Pecans or walnuts-chopped
 
    Combine chocolate and 3 tablespoons butter in top of double boiler;
  bring water to a boil.  Reduce heat to low; cook until chocolate
  melts. Set aside to cool.
    Combine 2 tablespoons butter and cream cheese, creaming until light
  and fluffy.  Stir in 1 egg, 1 tablespoon flour, and 1/2 teaspoon
  vanilla.  Set aside.
    Beat 2 eggs at medium speed of an electric mixer until thick and
  lemon colored.  Gradually add 3/4 cup sugar, beating well. Combine
  1/2 cup flour, baking powder, and salt; add to egg mixture, mixing
  well.  Stir in cooled chocolate, flavorings, and pecans.
    Pour half of chocolate batter into a greased 8 inch square pan.
  Spread with cheese mixture; top with remaining chocolate batter.  Cut
  through mixture in pan with a knife to create a marbled effect.  Bake
  at 350F for 35 to 40 minutes.  Cool on wire rack; cut into squares.
  Yield: 16 brownies. From the Southern Living Cookbook
 

 

 
      Title: Truffier au Chocolat a la Cafe de Paris
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      1    9 inch chocolate layer cake
      8 oz White fondant
      2 lb Semi-sweet chocolate
      2 c  Whipping cream
 
  With a serrated knife or thread, cut cake into two layers and place
  one layer in a 9 inch springform pan. In a double boiler, over hot
  water, melt chocolate and fondant. Or, use a microwave oven to melt
  the ingredients, allowing 12 minutes for chocolate, 20 seconds for
  fondant - medium power. Heat 1/2 cup cream to lukewarm. If using a
  microwave, allow 30 seconds. Beat the remaining chilled cream until
  it forms soft peaks; set aside. In a large bowl, combine warm cram
  with fondant and melted chocolate. Stir until ingredients are evenly
  blended and the temperature is reduced to lukewarm. Beat the soft
  chocolate mixture and gradually incorporate the whipped cream. Spoon
  one-half of the creamy chocolate mixture over cake. Top with second
  layer of cake. Complete by spreading the second half of the chocolate
  mixture over top. Refrigerate the cake for 8 to 12 hours. Serve
  chilled with whipped cream and chocolate curls. Serves 16. From The
  Gazette, 90/12/12. The recipe is from Chef Steven McKeown at the Cafe
  de Paris, 66 St. Louis in Quebec City.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Amaretto Brownies
 Categories: Desserts, Chocolate
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 c  Shortening
      2 c  Sugar
      2 tb Amaretto/almond-flavor
    1/2 ts Salt
           Handful sliced almonds
      2 tb Half-and-half
      1 ds Salt
      2 tb Amaretto
      4 oz Sq unsweetened chocolate
      4    Eggs, beaten
  1 1/2 c  Flour
      1    Recipe Amaretto Frosting
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine
      1 oz Sq unsweetened chocolate
  2 1/2 c  Powdered sugar, sifted
 
  ~--------------------------AMARETTO
  FROSTING-+---------------------------
  ~--------------------------AMARETTO
  FROSTING-+--------------------------- Note: 2/3 cup powdered baking
  cocoa can be substituted for the chocolate uares. Combine shortening
  (Crisco butter-flavored is good, or I've used rgarine be
  cholesterol-conscious) and chocolate in heavy saucepan; place er low
  heat, stirring constantly, until combined.  Remove from heat and ol.
  Stir in eggs and amaretto. Combine flour and salt; add to creamed
  xture, stirring well.  Pour batter into a lightly greased 13 x 9 x 2"
  king pan. Bake at 400 for 20 minutes; cool.  Frost with Amaretto
  osting, sprinkle with sliced almonds (or arrange in flowery patterns,
  to
   fancy).  Cut into squares. Note: 3 Tbs powdered baking cocoa can be
  substituted for chocolate uares. Combine butter & chocolate in a heavy
  saucepan; place over low at and stir constantly until melted. Stir in
  half and half.  Add wdered sugar, salt Amaretto, stirring until
  smooth. Yield: Enough osting for 2 dozen brownies. (Original recipe
  from Gayle Scott, esapeake, VA)
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Mousse
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Half and half,scalded
      1    Egg
      1 tb Creme de menthe
      1 c  Chocolate chips
      1    Pinch of salt
      2 c  Whipped cream
 
  Combine first 5 ingredients in blender container. Process on high for
  1 minute. Pour into serving dishes. Chill until set. Top with whipped
  cream.
 

 

 
      Title: Strawberries Yogurt San Remo
 Categories: Fruits, Desserts
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 pt Fresh Strawberries   *
      3 tb Sugar

-----------------------YOGURT TOPPING----------------------------
      3 x  Egg yolks
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 tb Brandy
    1/3 c  Sugar
      1 ds Nutmeg
      2 c  Plain Yogurt

--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
      2 tb Sliced Almonds
    1/4 c  Chocolate shavings/sprinkles
 
  * hulled, cleaned, and halved
   Combine strawberries and sugar. Cover; let stand 15 minutes.
   Prepare topping. Beat together yolks, 1/3 cup sugar, vanilla,
  nutmeg, and brandy until smooth. Fold in yopurt.
   Spoon strawberries into 4 sherbert dishes. Cover with topping;
  garnish with almonds and chocolate. Yield 4 servings.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Brownies, Low cal
 Categories: Desserts, Low-cal
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      6 oz Chocolate, semisweet
      4    Egg whites
    2/3 c  Sugar
      1 ts Baking powder
      1    Icing sugar
    1/2 c  Hot water
      1 ts Vanilla
    2/3 c  Flour, all-purpose
      1 pn Salt
 
  In large heatproof bowl set over hot water, melt chocolate with water,
  stirring until smooth. Remove from heat; let cool slightly.
  Whisk in egg whites and vanilla. Stir together sugar, flour, baking
  powder and salt; stir into chocolate batter just until combined. Pour
  into lightly greased 8 in. square cake pan. Bake in 350F oven for 20
  to 25 minutes or until edges pull away from pan. Let cool on rack;
  dust with icing sugar.
  Per serving: about 110 calories, 2 g protein, 4 g fat, 19 g
  carbohydrate.
 

 

 
      Title: Double Chocolate Brownies
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      5 oz Semi sweet chocolate, melted
      2    Eggs
      1 ts Pure vanilla extract
    1/2 ts Baking powder
      2 oz White cho. cut 1/2 in pieces
           ----------toppings----------
      1 oz Semi sweet chocolate melted
    1/2 c  Butter, melted
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  All purpose flour
           Salt
    1/2 c  Chopped pecans
      1 oz White chocolate, melted
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.  Butter an 8 or 9 inch square baking
  pan. Line pan with with parchment paper or waxed paper. Combine
  melted chocolate with melted butter.  With a whisk, beat eggs with
  sugar and vanilla. Beat in chocolate mixture. Stir flour with baking
  powder and salt. Stir flour mixture into chocolate mixture.  Stir in
  white chocolate and pecans. Pour batter into prepared pan and bake 30
  minutes. (Brownies may appear to be underbaked but will set when
  chilled). Cool. Do not worry if sides are slightly higher than
  middle. Just press sides down as brownies cool. Drizzle melted white
  and dark chocolate in a zigzag pattern on top uncut brownies.  Allow
  to rest at room temperature 1/2 hour. Cut into squares. Chill.
 

 

 
      Title: Kit's Chocolate Mousse
 Categories: Desserts, Chocolate
      Yield: 12 servings
 
     18 oz Semisweet chocolate
      6    Egg
      2 tb Creme de cacao
      2 c  Heavy cream; well chilled
      2 tb Confectioner's sugar
      1 tb Vanilla extract
 
  1.  Melt the chocolate over hot water. Let it cool until only warm. 2.
   While the chocolate cools, whip the cream until it forms medium-stiff
  peaks. Do not overbeat or the mousse will lose some of its smooth,
  light texture. 3.  Separate 4 of the eggs and set the whites aside.
  Combine yolks with the 2 remaining whole eggs in the bowl of an
  electric mixer. Beat until eggs are thick and lemon colored, around 5
  minutes. While the yolks are beating, place the 4 egg whites in a
  clean copper or stainless steel bowl and whisk, preferably by hand,
  until the whites start to stiffen. Sprinkle on the confectioners'
  sugar and beat until you have firm peaks. 4. Working quickly, add the
  cooled melted chocolate and a scoop of the whipped cream to the egg
  yolks. Stir until smooth, then add the remaining cream. When it is
  fully incorporated, add the liqueur and vanilla, then fold in the
  whites until just blended. 5. This mousse can be poured into small
  individual serving dishes or into 1 larger dessert dish. Chill at
  least 4 hours before serving. (Chilling it overnight intensifies the
  flavor.) The mousse may be frozen for up to 2 weeks. Remove from the
  freezer and let it sit in the refrigerator overnight before serving.
  VARIATION: Make a Brownie Cookie Crust from the Brownie Cookies
  recipe, then fill it with the mousse. Chill for 4 hours, then pipe
  whipped cream on top.
 

 

 
      Title: Fudge Pie
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Chocolate squares-unsweeten
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      1 tb Flour
           Pinch of salt
    1/4 lb Butter
      1 ts Vanilla
      4    Eggs
 
  Melt chocolate and butter together.  Add sugar and salt to beaten
  eggs, add melted ingred. Stir in flour, add vanilla.  Bake in greased
  pie pan for 25 min. in 350 degree oven.  Reduce to 250 degree and
  bake 15-20 min. longer.
  :       RECIPE CLIPPED by Michael Prothro
 

 

 
      Title: Kentuckey Derby Pie
 Categories: Pies, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      3    Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Pecans
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
    3/4 c  Flour
  1 1/2    Sticks of butter
  1 1/2 c  Chocolate chips
      2    Unbaked pie shells
 
  Mix sugar and flour well with fork. Add eggs and melted butter and
  blend together.  Add coursely chopped nuts, chocolate chips, vanilla
  and mix. Pour in pie shell.  Bake 325 for 40-45 minutes.
  :       RECIPE CLIPPED by Michael Prothro
 

 

 
      Title: Pears Helene
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
  2 2/3 c  Water
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Sugar
      8    Ripe, small whole pears

----------------------CHOCOLATE SAUCE---------------------------
      2    Squares of unsweetened choc.
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Corn syrup
      1 tb Butter
 
  Combine water, sugar, and vanilla in a large saucepan and boil for
  several minutes.  Then add the pears, and simmer, covered, for 10-15
  minutes, or until tender.  (Sometimes a hard pear will require as
  much as 30-50 minutes cooking time.)  Drain and cool. Melt
  chocolate.  Add corn syrup. Remove from heat.  Add vanilla and
  butter.  Stir well.  To serve:  Arrange pears upright on serving
  dish.  Place scoop of vanilla ice cream on plate.
   At the last minute pour the chocolate sauce over the pears.
  Remaining sauce may be passed.
  :       RECIPE CLIPPED by Michael Prothro
 

 

 
      Title: CREME ANGLAISE
 Categories: Desserts, Sauces, Kump
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Milk
      2    Egg yolks
      4 tb Granulated sugar
      1 ts Flour
      2 ts Vanilla; -=OR=-
      2 oz -Bittersweet chocolate -OR-
      3 ts -Instant espresso powder OR
      2 tb -Grand Marnier or Cointreau
 
  This is one of the basic dessert sauces. It is luscious simply served
  with fresh fruit.
  
  HEAT THE MILK to the boiling point while you ribbon the yolks with the
  sugar; beat with a whisk until canary yellow. Then add the flour and
  beat again. While whisking, pour the boiling milk over the yolk-sugar
  mixture, then return to the pan. Stirring, preferably with a wooden
  spoon that has a flat edge to scrape the bottom of the pan, bring
  just to the boil. Immediately remove from the heat, whisking to cool.
  Pour through a fine sieve for the best texture. Keeps 2-or-3 days
  refrigerated.
  
  VARIATIONS:
  
  CHOCOLATE SAUCE: Add bittersweet chocolate, chopped, to the hot sauce
  and stir until melted.
  
  MOCHA SAUCE: Add 2-to-3 teaspoons of powdered instant espresso coffee.
  
  ORANGE SAUCE: Add 2 tablespoons Grand Marnier or Cointreau.
  
  Makes 1 1/2 Cups
  
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 

 

 
      Title: BLACK FOREST PUDDING
 Categories: Desserts, Malgieri
      Yield: 8 servings
 
-----------------------PUDDING BATTER----------------------------
      6 oz Semisweet chocolate
    3/4 c  Unsalted butter
    2/3 c  Sugar
      8    Eggs
    1/4 c  Kirsch
  1 1/3 c  Ground almonds
    1/3 c  Dry bread crumbs
      1 lb Sour cherries
           - rinsed, stemmed & pitted
 
  PREHEAT THE OVEN TO 350F and set a rack in the middle level. For the
  batter, cut the chocolate finely and place in a small bowl over hot
  water to melt, stirring occasionally. Beat the butter with half the
  sugar until soft and light, beat in the chocolate, then the yolks,
  one at a time. Beat in the kirsch. Combine the almonds and crumbs and
  stir in. Fold in the cherries. Beat the egg whites until they hold a
  very soft peak and beat in the remaining sugar in a slow stream. Beat
  the whites until they hold a firm peak. Stir 1/4 of the whites into
  the batter, then fold in the rest with a rubber spatula. Pour the
  batter into a buttered and floured 2-quart gratin dish or other
  baking dish. Bake the pudding about 30 minutes, or until it is well
  puffed. Serve the pudding immediately, or allow it to cool slightly
  and serve it warm or at room temperature.
  
  NICK MALGIERI - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 

 

 
      Title: CUSCUSU DI PISTACHI
 Categories: Desserts, Nuts, Italian, Malgieri
      Yield: 10 servings
 
--------------------FOR SEALING THE PAN-------------------------
      1 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 c  Water

--------------------------COUSCOUS-------------------------------
      1 c  Couscous, not instant
      3 c  Water

------------------FLAVORING & 2ND STEAMING-----------------------
      1 tb Water
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Shelled green pistachios
           - unsalted and very green
      1 ts Almond extract
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 c  Almond oil
           -=OR=- Mild vegetable oil

-------------------------FINISHING------------------------------
    1/2 c  Sugar
      2 tb Water
    1/4 c  Confectioners' sugar
      1 oz Semisweet chocolate
           - finely grated
           Candied cherries
           -=OR=- Other Candied Fruit
           - (to garnish)
 
  Couscous is normally a savory dish found in Morocco. This unusual
  dessert version is the specialty of a small convent in Sicily.
  
  FIRST PREPARE THE PAN for steaming the couscous: For the sealing
  dough, mix the flour and water together in a bowl and scrape onto a
  floured work surface. Knead briefly to form a rough, sticky dough,
  adding a tablespoon or 2 of flour if necessary. Roll into a rope as
  long as the circumference of the bottom pan and apply the dough to
  the rim of the pan. Add water to the pan so that the water is below
  the bottom of the couscousiere or colander and press the couscousiere
  into place. Bring the water to a boil on high heat, until steam is
  escaping freely through the perforations, then lower to a simmer, so
  that the steam escapes very gently. While the water is coming to a
  boil, prepare the couscous to be cooked: Place the grain in a bowl
  and add the water. Swish the water through the grain with the fingers
  of one hand splayed apart, "raking" through it. Tilt the bowl and
  drain away excess water. Set aside for 5 minutes. Line the
  couscousiere with a dampened napkin or cheesecloth and add the grain.
  Cover and steam 15 minutes. While the grain is cooking, prepare the
  flavoring. Half fill a saucepan with water and add the pistachios.
  Bring to a boil; drain in a strainer. Pour the pistachios onto a
  towel, fold the towel over them and rub to loosen skins. Separate
  pistachios from skins, going over them carefully. Combine the freshly
  blanched pistachios, extract and cinnamon in a food processor bowl
  and process for 2-3 minutes, until very finely ground and starting to
  become pasty. Add the oil, 1 tablespoon at a time, and continue
  processing mixture to a smooth paste, stopping the machine and
  scraping the inside of the bowl 3-or-4 times. Reserve pistachio
  paste. After the couscous has steamed 15 minutes, remove it from the
  couscousiere in the cheesecloth and put it in a large, non-reactive
  roasting pan. Spread it out with a fork and let cool. Combine the
  salt and water and work it into the cooled couscous, raking it
  through with 1 hand. Add the pistachio paste in 3-or-4 additions,
  working it in by rubbing it and the couscous together with the
  fingertips. Return the water in the bottom pan to a simmer, and line
  the couscousiere again with the dampened cheesecloth. Add the
  seasoned couscous to the couscousiere, cover and steam 15 minutes.
  Remove the couscous to the roasting pan, spread out with a fork,
  without compressing the mixture, and leave uncovered until cool. To
  finish the couscous, bring the sugar and water to a boil, stirring to
  dissolve all sugar granules, and cool the syrup. Work the cooled
  couscous between the palms of the hands again to separate the grains
  and toss in the syrup in 5-or-6 additions, fluffing the couscous with
  a fork. Allow the couscous to dry uncovered, several hours, in a cool
  place, fluffing it with a fork occasionally, until all the grains are
  separate. For advance preparation, cover tightly with plastic wrap
  and refrigerate up to several days. To serve, fluff up with a fork so
  the grains separate well and mound the couscous on a platter.
  Sprinkle the couscous evenly with the grated chocolate, then the
  confectioners' sugar. Decorate with no more than 5-or-6 pieces of the
  candied fruit.
  
  NICK MALGIERI - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 

 

 
      Title: GELO DI MELLONE
 Categories: Desserts, Fruits, Italian, Malgieri
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/4    Ripe watermelon
    2/3 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Cornstarch
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      2 tb Chopped, blanched pistachios
    1/2 oz Semisweet chocolate
           - coarsely grated
      3 tb Candied citron
           - rinsed and chopped
           Cinnamon; for finishing
 
  Popular in Palermo, this dessert carries the humble watermelon to new
  heights of sophistication.
  
  SPOON THE FLESH AWAY from the rind of the melon into a large bowl.
  Remove seeds and liquefy in food processor or blender. Combine sugar
  and cornstarch in a 3-quart non-reactive saucepan and add watermelon
  juice gradually, whisking it in. Place over low heat and bring to a
  boil, stirring constantly with a flat-edged wooden spatula. At the
  boil, continue cooking about 5 minutes, stirring constantly, over
  lowest heat. Remove from heat, stir in vanilla extract and pour into
  a mixing bowl. Cool to room temperature, stirring occasionally to
  prevent a skin from forming on the surface. After the gelo has
  cooled, stir in the remaining ingredients, except the cinnamon. Pour
  into a glass serving bowl and chill. To serve the gelo, spoon into
  dessert bowls and sprinkle with cinnamon at the table.
  
  NICK MALGIERI - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 

 

 
      Title: ZUPPA INGLESE
 Categories: Italian, Desserts, Malgieri
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1    Pane di Spagne
           - baked and cooled

-----------------------PASTRY CREAMS----------------------------
      1 qt Milk
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
     12    Egg yolks
    2/3 c  Unbleached all-purpose flour
      1 tb Grated orange zest
      2 ts Vanilla extract
      4 oz Bittersweet chocolate
    1/2 ts Cinnamon

---------------------------SYRUP--------------------------------
    2/3 c  Water
    2/3 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Dark rum

-------------------------FINISHING------------------------------
    3/4 c  Heavy cream
           Chocolate shavings
           Candied fruit
 
  BRING THE MILK and half the sugar to a boil in a large saucepan.
  Whisk the egg yolks in mixing bowl and beat in the remaining sugar.
  Sift in the flour and beat it in. Beat 1/3 of the boiling milk into
  the egg mixture. Return the remaining milk to a boil and beat in the
  egg mixture, continuing to beat until the pastry cream thickens and
  comes to a boil. Cook, beating about 1 minute. Remove the cream from
  the heat and pour half into each of 2 bowls. Stir the orange zest and
  vanilla extract into one and the chocolate and cinnamon into the
  other. Press plastic wrap against the surface of each and refrigerate
  until cold.
  
  FOR THE SYRUP: Bring the water and sugar to a boil in a small pan.
  Cool and add the rum. Cut the Pane di Spagna into thin vertical
  slices. Place a layer of the slices in the bottom of a glass bowl and
  moisten with the syrup. Spread with half the orange cream. Cover with
  another layer of the Pane di Spagna and moisten with the syrup and
  cover with a layer of the chocolate cream. Repeat with the remaining
  ingredients, ending with a layer of the cake slices and moistening
  with the remaining syrup. Whip the cream and spread on the top.
  Decorate with some chocolate shavings and the candied fruit.
  
  NICK MALGIERI - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 

 

 
      Title: Easy Chocolate Dipping Sauce
 Categories: Dips, Sauces, Desserts
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8 oz Milk Chocolate
    1/2 c  Whipping Cream
           Hazelnut-Flavored Liqueur; *
 
  *    Add the liqueur to taste.
  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  ++++++++++++++++++ Melt the chocolate in a double boiler and allow to
  cool until tepid. Blend in the whipping cream and liqueur, mixing
  well and serve immediately. Makes about 1 1/2 cups of dipping sauce.
  SUGGESTED DIPPERS: Fresh Or Dried Fruit, Vanilla Wafers, Ladyfingers,
  Pound Cake Cubes, Plain Cookies, Pretzels
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Chip Torte
 Categories: Snacks, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    Egg Whites; Large
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Cream Of Tartar
  1 1/3 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla Extract
      1 c  Potato Chips; Crushed
  1 1/2 oz Unsweetend Chocolate
      1 c  Milk
      1 tb Flour; Unbleached
    1/4 ts Salt
      3    Egg Yolks; Large,Beat Slight
      1 tb Butter
    1/2 ts Vanilla Extract
    1/2 c  Heavy Cream;Sweeten, Whipped
 
  Preheat oven to 300 degrees F.  Beat egg whites with salt and cream of
  tartar until foamy.  Add 1 cup of sugar slowly, and beat until
  meringue stands in very stiff peaks (about 10 to 15 minutes). Add
  vanilla and mix thoroughly.  Fold in potato chips.  Cover cookie
  sheet with unglazed paper (baking parchment or brown paper bag).
  Spread meringue on paper in 2 rounds 9 inches in diameter and about
  3/4-inch thick. Bake 45 minutes. Cool. Place chocolate and milk in
  saucepan.
   Cook and stir over medium heat until chocolate is melted. Beat with
  electric mixer until blended. Combine 1/3 cup sugar, flour, and salt.
  Add to chocolate mixture slowly, stirring well. Cook and stir until
  thick, about 10 to 15 minutes.  Add slightly beaten egg yolks slowly
  to chocolate mixture, blending well. Cook for 3 minutes longer,
  stirring constantly. Remove from heat.  Stir in butter and vanilla.
  Cool to room temperature. Spread cooled chocolate filling on one
  meringue, then place second meringue on top.  Spread sides with
  sweetened whipped cream. Chill until ready to serve, but don't keep
  in refrigerator mor than a few hours, lest the meringues wilt.  Serve
  with more whipped cream or vanilla ice cream.
 

 

 
      Title: Twinkie Pie
 Categories: Pies, Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           Butter
      9    Twinkies
      3    Eggs; Large, Seperated
           Cream Of Tartar; Dash of
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla Extract
      6 oz Chocolate Chips; Semisweet
      1 c  Pecans; Chopped
      1 c  Heavy Cream; Whipped
 
  Grease pyrex square or rectangular casserole with butter. Cut 8
  Twinkies in thirds, LENGTHWISE, and put one layer on the bottom of
  the casserole. Beat egg whites, with the cream of tartar and sugar,
  adding vanilla. Melt chocolate chips in the top of a double boiler.
  Add egg yolks to chocolate, slowly, continuing to stir over boiling
  water. Fold chocolate into egg whites.  Spread over Twinkies, then
  sprinkle with about half of the nuts. Layer on more twinkies, more
  chocolate, more nuts. Continue layering. Top with whipped cream and a
  single whole Twinkie.  Chill and serve.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Tortoni
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Sq Unsweetened Chocolate
      6 oz Semi Sweet Chocolate
    1/2 c  Chopped almonds
      4    Egg Whites
    1/8 ts Cream of Tartar
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Sugar
  2 1/2 c  Whipping Cream
      2 ts Sugar
      1 tb Vanilla
      6 oz Chopped Candied Red Cherries
 
  In a microwave oven or over boiling water, melt both kinds of
  chocolate. Set aside to cool. Toast the almonds in a shallow pan in a
  moderate oven (350 degrees) for about 10 minutes. Beat egg whites
  with cream of tartar and salt until foamy white. Gradually beat in
  1/4 cup of sugar, 1 tablespoon at a time, until soft peaks form. Beat
  two cups of cream in a bowl until stiff. Beat in two teaspoons of
  sugar, the vanilla and melted chocolate, blend well. Fold the beaten
  egg whites, the chopped cherries, toasted almonds and the melted
  semi-sweet chocolate into the whipped cream mixture. Small chunks of
  chocolate may remain. Place paper baking cups in 24 muffin-pan cups
  (about 2 inches diameter). Freeze until firm. four hours or
  overnight. Beat remaining 1/2 cup of cream in a small bowl until
  stiff. Garnish each tortoni with a rosette of cream and a candied
  cherry. From The Gazette, 90/12/05
 

 

 
      Title: Italian Rum Cake
 Categories: Desserts, Alcohol
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 cn Dark pitted cherries;
           - drained, soaked in rum
           - overnight
      1 c  Rum
      1 c  Sliced canned peaches; drain
      1 lg Vanilla pudding *
      1 lg Chocolate pudding *
      2 pk Stella D'Oro anisette toast
    1/3 c  Creme de cacao
    2/3 c  Rum
 
   * do not use instant pudding Drain rum from cherries and add to
  creme de cacao mixture. Cook both puddings separately. Let cool. Line
  bottom of springform pan with cookies. Fill in all gaps. Drizzle rum
  & cream de cacao mixture over cookies, using 1/3 of mixture. Add
  peaches to vanilla pudding. Add cherries to chocolate pudding. In
  springform pan lined with cookies, place vanilla pudding w/peaches.
  Add another layer of cookies. Drizzle with half of remainder of rum
  mixture. Spread chocolate pudding with cherries on top. Layer again
  with cookies and drizzle remaining rum mixture. Place in refrigerator
  for several hours or overnight. Top with whipped cream at serving
  time.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Mousse Supreme
 Categories: Desserts, Chocolate
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8 oz Bittersweet chocolate; chop
      2 tb Brandy -OR- Cognac
      6 tb Water
      2 tb Unsalted butter; room temp
      3 lg Egg yolks
      2 tb Sugar
  1 1/4 c  Whipping cream; well chilled
 
  Combine chocolate, brandy and 2 tbls water in medium bowl and set over
  nearly simmering water. Stir until smooth. Remove from water. Stir in
  butter until blended. Let cool. Whisk egg yolks with sugar and
  remaining 4 tbls water in small metal bowl. Set bowl in pan of nearly
  simmering water. Heat, whisking constantly, until mixture reaches
  160~ on instant-read or candy thermometer, about l minute.
  Immediately remove from water and whisk until cool. Stir into
  chocolate mixture. Whip cream in large, chilled bowl until nearly
  stiff. Gently fold into chocolate mixture. Divide mousse among 6 or 7
  ramekins or dessert glasses. Cover and refrigerate 3 hours before
  serving.
 

 

 
      Title: Cherry Mash
 Categories: Desserts, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     12 oz Semisweet chocolate chips
      1 cn Cherry pie filling
      7 oz Marshmallow cream
      1 c  Nuts
    3/4 c  Crunchy peanut butter
 
  Combine chocolate chips and peanut butter in an 8 cup glass measure.
  Microwave on HIGH for 1-1/2 minutes until melted; stir in nuts.
  Spread half of mixture in a 13x9" pan. Combine cherry frosting and
  marshmallow cream in a mixing bowl. Spread on top of chocolate
  mixture. Top with remaining chocolate mixture. Chill several hours
  until firm. Cut into 1-1/2" squares
   NOTE: these may be make in mini baking cups.
 

 

 
      Title: Lake Highlands Rock Cake (part 1)
 Categories: Desserts, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
----------------------CHOCOLATE SPONGE---------------------------
    1/2 c  Flour, heaping
      2 tb Cocoa
      4 lg Eggs
    1/2 c  Sugar
      4 tb Butter; melted

---------------------CHOCOLATE MERINGUE--------------------------
      4    Egg whites
      1 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Sugar
      1 tb Cocoa

-------------------------RUM SYRUP------------------------------
      1 c  Water
      2 c  Sugar
      1 tb Rum

----------------------CHOCOLATE MOUSSE---------------------------
    3/4 c  Butter
      6 oz Semi sweet chocolate
      6 tb Cocoa powder
      4    Egg yolks
  1 1/4 c  Powdered sugar
      1 pt Cream; lightly whipped
 
   Chocolate Sponge: Preheat oven to 350~. Grease 9" round cake tin.
  Sift the flour and cocoa together; set aside. Using a wire whisk, mix
  eggs and sugar in a bowl set over a pan of hot water. Continue
  whisking until mixture is light and creamy. Remove from heat and
  whisk until cold. Gently fold the flour-cocoa mixture into egg
  mixture, then fold in melted butter. Pour batter into prepared cake
  tin. Bake for 30 minutes or until sponge springs back when tapped
  lightly in the center. Cool 10 minutes then turn out on rack to cool
  completely.
   Chocolate Meringue: Preheat oven to 325~ and line a cookie sheet with
  parchment paper. By hand or with electric mixer beat egg whites until
  foamy. Add 1 cup sugar gradually and continue beating until egg
  whites are very stiff. Sift 1/3 cup sugar and cocoa together; fold
  into the meringue mixture by hand. Spread meringue onto the cookie
  sheet. Bake at 325~ until puffy. Turn off oven and leave meringue,
  with the door closed, until oven is cold and meringue is very dry.
  Meringue can be made in advance and stored in a dry place.
 

 

 
      Title: Pineapple fudge chill
 Categories: Desserts, Ww, Low-cal
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -NFSM70B
      1 pk Chocolate flavored low cal
           -milk beverage mix (I use
           -Alba
    1/2 c  Crushed pineapple w/juice
    1/2 ts Vanilla
           -May add additional sweetner
           -to taste.
 
  In a small bowl combine above ingredients until well blended. Spread
  into a foil pan or in a cereal bowl. Place in freezer until firm.
  Note: 1/2 med. banana, peeled and mashed may be used in place of the
  pineapple. Add small amount of water to moisten for desired
  consistency to spread. 1 serving = 1 milk, 1 fruit
 

 

 
      Title: POLKA-DOT BROWNIES
 Categories: Ww, Low-cal, Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -Joyce Burton, PDPP83A
      3 oz Semisweet chocolate;
           Coarsely chopped - OR -
      3 oz Semisweet chocolate chips
    1/2 c  Red-cal. margarine (tub)
      4    Lg eggs (room temperature)
    1/2 c  Granulated sugar
      1 ts Vanilla extract
    1/4 ts Salt
    3/4 c  All-purpose flour
           Confectioners' sugar and/or
           Unsweetened cocoa powder
           To garnish (optional)
 
  Preheat oven to 350. Lightly spray an 8" square baking pan with
  nonstick cooking spray. In top of double boiler, over barely
  simmering water (or in microwave), melt chocolate and margarine;
  remove from heat and stir until smooth. Set aside to cool to room
  temperature. In large bowl, with electric mixer at high speed, beat
  eggs and sugar until pale yellow, thick and tripled in volume, about
  7 minutes. Beat in vanilla and salt. By hand, stir in cooled
  chocolate mixture, then fold in flour, just until incorporated. Pour
  evenly into prepared pan and bake 20-25 minutes, just until a knife
  inserted in center comes out almost clean. (If brownies are slightly
  underbaked, they will have a fudgier texture.) Cool on rack before
  cutting into 8 equal bars. If desired, dust brownies with either
  confectioners' sugar or cocoa. Makes 8 servings of 1 brownie each.
   Each serving provides: 1/2 protein exchange, 1/2 bread exchange, 1
  1/2 fat exchange, 115 calories optional exchange. Per serving: 236
  calories.
   From Low-Calorie Sweet Treats in the database of Joyce Burton ..
  PDPP83A.
 

 

 
      Title: Strawberry, Chocolate, and Cheese Parfait
 Categories: Desserts, Chocolate, Ww, Genie
      Yield: 2 servings
 
           -Makes 2 servings
      1 c  Strawberries, sliced
      1 tb Strawberry* liqueur
    1/2 c  Part-skim ricotta cheese
  1 1/2 ts Each granulated sugar
           -and whipping cream
    1/2 oz Ini chocolate chips
 
   In small mixing bowl combine strawberries and liqueur; set aside.
  Using a fork, in separate small mixing bowl combine cheese, sugar,
  and cream; fold in chips. Into each of 2 long-stemmed glasses or
  individual dessert dishes spoon half of the cheese mixture, then top
  each with half of the strawberry mixture. Serve immediately or cover
  and refrigerate until chilled.
  
   Each serving provides: 1 Protein Exchange, 1/2 fruit Exchange; 90
  Optional Calories
  
   Per Serving: 189 Calories; 8g protein; 9g fat; 18g carbohydrate; 195
  mg calcium; 84mg soium; 24mg cholesterol; 1g dietary fiber.
  
   * Raspberry or cherry liqueur may be substituted for the strawberry
  liqueur
  
   Source:  Weight Watchers Quick Success Program Cookbook
  
   Posted by COOKIE.LADY [MUMSIE] on Jul 16, 1992
  
   MM by Cathy Svitek
 

 

 
      Title: Derby Pie
 Categories: Pies, Chocolate
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Sugar
      4 tb Cornstarch
      2    Eggs, lightly beaten
    1/2 c  Butter or oleo, melted
      3 tb Bourbon or 1 ts vanilla
      1 pk Chocolate chips--6 oz.
      1    9-inch unbaked pastry shell
           Whipped cream
      1 c  Finely chopped pecans
 
    Combine sugar and cornstarch; beat in eggs; mix in butter, bourbon,
  chocolate chips and pecans.  Pour into pie shell. Bake at 350 degrees
  for 40 minutes or until puffy and lightly browned. Cool completely.
  Serve with whipped cream made by beating 1/2 cup heavy cream with 1
  tablespoons powdered sugar in a small bowl to soft peaks. Add 1
  teaspoon bourbon or 1/2 teapsoon vanilla and beat to stiff peaks. Pat
  Empson 05/25 09:50 am
         FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 05/25 10:02 AM
  
  TO:      PAT EMPSON   (PFXX29A) FROM: PAT EMPSON (PFXX29A) SUBJECT:
  R-MM-MIXED BAG
 

 

 
      Title: TRUFFLES
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 36 servings
 
           -Dottie Cross TMPJ72B
      1 pk -(16 ozs) Duncan Hines Milk
           -Chocolate Layer Cake Frosti
  2 1/2 c  Confectioners' sugar
      1 c  Pecan halves, divided
      1 c  Semi-sweet chocolate chips
      3 tb Crisco Shortening
 
  1. Combine Chocolate frosting and confectioners' sugar in large mixing
  bowl. Stir with wooden spoon until thoroughly blended. 2. Cover each
  pecan half with one tablespoon candy mixture. Roll into 1-inch balls;
  set aside. Chop remaining pecans; set aside. 3. Place chocolate chips
  and shortening in 2-cup glass measuring cup. Microwave at MEDIUM (50%
  power) for 2 minutes; stir. Microwave for 1 minute longer at MEDIUM;
  stir until smooth. Dip one candy ball into chocolate mixture until
  completely covered. Remove with fork to cooling rack. Sprinkle top
  with chopped pecans. Repeat until all candy balls are covered. Allow
  to stand until chocolate mixture is set. Note: For peanut butter
  flavored coating, place 1 cup peanut butter chips and 3 T Crisco
  Shortening in 2-cup glass measuring cup. Microwave at MEDIUM (50%
  power) for 2 minutes; stir until smooth. Dip candy balls as directed
  above. Tip: Place waxed paper under cooling rack to catch drips and
  make cleanup easy. Duncan Hines "Recipes and More" - Winter, 1992
  Reformatted by: CYGNUS, HCPM52C
 

 

 
      Title: Jimmy Carter Dessert
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 10 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
  1 1/2 c  Chopped peanuts; divided
      1 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine
      8 oz Cream cheese; softened
     12 oz Whipped topping
      1 c  Confectioners' sugar
    1/2 c  Creamy peanut butter
      1 sm Pk chocolate instant pudding
      1 sm Pk vanilla instant pudding
  2 1/2 c  Milk
      1 c  Chocolate syrup
 
  Crust: Mix 1 C peanuts with 1 C flour and the softened stick of
  butter or margarine. Blend together and press in 13x9" pan. Bake for
  20 minutes at 300~. Cool. 1st Layer-Cream the cream cheese with the
  peanut butter and 1 C confectioners' sugar with electric mixer. Blend
  in 1 C whilled topping with a spoon. Spread on cooled crust
  carefully. 2nd Layer-Blend instand puddings into cold milk. Spread on
  top of first layer. 3rd Layer-Spread remaining whipped toppping on
  top of 2nd layer. 4th Layer-Drizzle chocolate syrup on top of whipped
  topping. 5th Layer-Sprinkle with remaining half cup chopped peanuts.
  Freeze. Remove from freezer 1 hour before serving. Refrigerate or
  refreeze leftovers. Source: Times-Picayune, Miriam Guidroz (wrv)
 

 

 
      Title: Choco-Banana Supreme Shake
 Categories: Ww, Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Pam Courson-DWHV03B
      1 c  Diet chocolate soda; chilled
    1/2 md Banana; peeled
      1 pk Diet choc. shake mix
           -(WW or Alba)
      1 tb Smooth peanut butter; frozen
 
   Into each of 4 sections of ice cube tray pour 2 Tblsps soda (sections
  should be about 2/3 full); freeze till cubes are solid. Wrap banana in
  plastic freezer wrap freeze till solid.
   In blender combine remaining 1/2 cup soda, frozen banana half, dairy
  drink mix, and peanut butter, and process at high speed till smooth,
  scraping down sides of container as necessary. Add soda cubes, 1 at a
  time, processing after each addition till ice is dissolved (mixture
  will be thick). Serve immediately.
  
   Makes one serving: 1 P, 1 Fa, 1 Fr, 1 M, 2 opt. cals.
   Variation: Omit peanut butter and lose 1P and 1 Fa
   NOTE:  Both these recipes were adapted from "Weight Watchers Family
  Recipes." I say "adapted," 'cause I prefer to eat my frozen banana
  without a stick in it <g>!
 

 

 
      Title: E. J.'s Chocolate Peanut Butter Pie
 Categories: Ww, Pies, Low-cal, Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
      1    9" Graham Cracker Pie Crust

-----------------------FILLING LAYER----------------------------
      1 pk Sugar-free vanilla pudding*
    2/3 c  Nonfat dry milk powder
  1 1/2 c  Cold water
    1/2 c  Chunky peanut butter

-----------------------FILLING LAYER----------------------------
      1 pk Sugar-free instant chocolate
           Pudding mix*
    2/3 c  Nonfat dry milk powder
  1 1/4 c  Cold water

--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
      2 c  Regular whipped topping
 
  *4 serving size Filling Layer 1: Add dry milk powder to pudding mix.
  Add water and mix until smooth. Beat in peanut butter. Spread in
  bottom of pie shell. Filling Layer 2: Use same bowl from layer 1 (no
  need to wash it). Add dry milk to pudding mix. Stir in water. Mix
  until smooth. Pour on top of peanut butter layer. Topping: Spread on
  top of pie. If desired, garnish with chocolate curls made from 1 oz.
  of chocolate bar or mini chocolate chips. Chill before serving. Each
  serving provides: l/2 Bread, 1 Fat, 1/2 Milk, 1 Protein, 150 optional
  calories (crust, 50; topping, 50; pudding, 30; garnish, 20. Submitted
  by Patricia Wyatt (DPSR32A).
 

 

 
      Title: Fruit-Filled Puffs
 Categories: Ww, Desserts, Passover
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           -Joyce Burton - PDPP83A
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      1 c  Matzoh cake meal
      2 tb Matzoh cake meal
    1/2 ts -Salt
      6 lg Eggs
    3/4 c  Nondairy whipped topping
      3 c  Whole strawberries; thinly
           -sliced
      3 md Kiwi fruit; coarsely chopped
      2 tb Chocolate syrup
 
   1.  Preheat oven to 450 F.  Spray a large baking sheet with nonstick
  cooking spray; set aside.
   2.  In medium saucepan, combine 1 cup water, the oil and vanilla;
  bring to a boil.  Stir in matzoh cake meal and salt; continue
  cooking, stirring constantly, about 1 minute, until mixture no longer
  sticks to side of saucepan.  Remove from heat and stir in eggs, 1 at
  a time, stirring thorougly after each addition.
   3.  Drop dough by 12 rounded tablespoonfuls, 2" apart, onto prepared
  baking sheet.  Bake 10 minutes. Reduce heat to 400 F. and bake 10-15
  minutes longer, until browned and puffed. Cool completely on rack,
  then slice in half horizontally.
   4.  To fill, fit a pastry bag with 1/4" diameter star tip. Fill bag
  with whipped topping.  Divide fruit evenly among bottom halves of
  puffs. Pipe or spoon 2 tablespoons topping over each filled half.
  Place tops on puffs and drizzle 1/2 teaspoon chocolate syrup over
  each.
  
  Each serving provides:  1 FA, 1/2 P, 1/2 B, 1/2 FR, 25 C. Per
  serving: 178 cal, 5 g pro, 9 g fat, 20 g car, 129 mg sod, 106 mg chol.
  
  Source:  "Weight Watchers" magazine, April 1992.
 

 

 
      Title: SNICKERS PIE - Part 1 or 2
 Categories: Pies, Desserts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           -Don Fifield XKGR41A

---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Graham cracker crumbs
      1 tb Sugar
      6 tb Unsalted butter(3/4 stick)
           -melted

------------------------FUDGE LAYER-----------------------------
      6 tb All purpose flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Unsalted butter (1 stick)
           -cut into 8 pieces
      4 oz Semisweet chocolate; chopped
      1 oz Unsweetened chocolate;
           -chopped
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 lg Egg
      1 lg Egg yolk
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      2 c  Snickers bars (ab.8 1/2 oz)
           -(cut into 1/2-inch pieces)

---------------------CREAM CHEESE LAYER--------------------------
     10 oz Cream cheese; room temp.
    1/3 c  Sugar
      1 lg Egg
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      2 oz Milk chocolate; chopped
      2 tb Whipping cream
 
  FOR CRUST: Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 deg.
  Butter 9-inch-diameter deep-dish glass pie dish. Combine graham
  cracker crumbs and sugar in medium bowl. Add melted butter and stir
  until well incorporated. Press graham mixture evenly into bottom and
  up sides of prepared dish. Bake until crust is set, about 5 minutes.
  Cool on rack. Maintain oven temperature.
  
  FOR FUDGE LAYER:  Sift flour, baking powder and salt into medium bowl.
  Combine butter semisweet chocolate and unsweetened chocolate in top of
  double boiler set over simmering water. Stir until melted and smooth.
  Remove from over water and cool slightly. Using
   05/29 11:18 pm Don Fifield -Marietta, GA yolk in medium bowl until
  slightly thickened, about 1 min. Add vanilla and cooled chocolate
  mixture and mix until well blended. Add dry ingredients and mix just
  until combined.
 

 

 
      Title: FROZEN MILKY WAY MOUSSE - Part 1 or 2
 Categories: Mousse, Desserts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           -Don Fifield XKGR41A

----------------------CHOCOLATE SAUCE---------------------------
      1 c  Whipping cream
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Unsweetened cocoa powder
      3 tb Unsalted butter
      1 ts Vanilla extract
    1/2 ts Instant coffee powder

---------------------------MOUSSE--------------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Milky Way bars;(ab.8 1/4 oz)
           -cut in 1/2-inch pieces
      6 oz Semisweet chocolate; chopped
      3 oz Unsweetened chocolate;choppd
      4 tb Unsalted butter; (1/2 stick)
    1/2 c  Sugar
      3 tb Water
      3 lg Egg whites
    1/4 ts Cream of tartar
  1 1/4 c  Whipping cream; chilled
      1 ts Vanilla extract
 
  FOR SAUCE:  Combine whipping cream, sugar, unsweetened cocoa powder
  and unsalted butter in heavy medium saucepan. Bring to simmer over
  medium-low heat, whisking constantly until butter melts and sugar and
  cocoa dissolve. Remove from heat and whisk in vanilla extract and
  instant coffee powder. Cool sauce. (Can be prepared 1 week ahead.
  Cover and refrigerate)
  
  FOR MOUSSE:  Line 9X5X3-inch loaf pan with parchment paper. Combine
  Milky Way pieces, semisweet chocolate, unsweetened chocolate and
  unsalted butter in large heatproof bowl set over pan of simmering
  water. Stir constantly until melted. (mixture will look grainy)
  Remove bowl from over water and cool mixture slightly.
  
  Combine sugar and water in heavy small saucepan. Stir over low heat
  until sugar dissolves.  Increase heat to high, and boil syrup until
  termperature reaches 230 deg. on candy thermometer.
  
  Meanwhile, beat egg whites and cream of tartar to soft peaks in bowl.
  
  Gradually pour boiling syrup into egg whites, beating until stiff
  peaks form and whites are cool, about 5 min.
 

 

 
      Title: Coffee Almond Ice Cream Cake
 Categories: Dairy, Chocolate, Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Chocolate wafer crumbs (abou
  1 1/2 pt Coffee ice cream, slightly s
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Almonds, sliced and toasted
    1/4 c  Unsalted butter, melted
  1 1/2 c  Heavy cream, well chilled
  1 1/2 c  Amaretti, crushed (italian a
           Dark chocolate sauce (see re
 
  In a bowl with a fork, stir together the crumbs and butter until the
  mixture is well combined.  Pat the mixture onto the bottom and 1-inch
  up the sides of a lightly oiled 8-inch, 2-1/2-inch deep springform
  pan. Freeze crust for 30 minutes or until firm.  Spread ice cream
  evenly on the crust and return to freezer for 30 minutes or until ice
  cream is firm. In a bowl with an electric mixer, beat cream with
  vanilla until it holds stiff peaks, fold in amaretti thoroughly and
  spread over ice cream. Smooth top of cake, sprinkle with almonds, and
  freeze cake for 30-45 minutes, or until top is firm. Freeze cake,
  covered with plastic wrap and foil, overnight. Just before serving,
  wrap a warm damp towel around the side of the pan, remove side of
  pan, and transfer cake to a serving plate.  Cut into wedges with a
  knife dipped in hot water and serve it with the Dark Chocolate Sauce.
  a 1988 Gourmet Mag. favorite
 

 

 
      Title: Dark Chocolate Sauce
 Categories: Sauces, Chocolate, Sweet
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Heavy cream
      4 oz Bittersweet chocolate, chopp
    1/4 c  Unsalted butter, softened
    2/3 c  Dark brown sugar, packed
      3 oz Unsweetened chocolate, chopp
      3 tb Amaretto, or to taste
 
  In a small heavy saucepan, combine the cream and brown sugar.  Bring
  the mixture to a boil over mod-high heat, whisking occasionally, and
  boil it, whisking, until sugar is dissolved.  Remove pan from heat
  and add chocolates, whisking, until they are melted.  Whisk in the
  butter and the Amaretto. Continue to whisk until the sauce is smooth.
  Let cool slightly. Makes about 3 cups. Gourmet Mag. Jan. 91
 

 

 
      Title: Rum Cream Pie
 Categories: Pastry, Dairy, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pie crust recipe for single
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Dark rum
           Bittersweet chocolate shavin
      6    Lg Egg yolks
      2 c  Heavy cream, well chilled
  1 1/2 tb Unflavored gelatin
 
  Line a 9-inch pie plate with pastry, cover with foil and fill with
  rice. Bake the empty pie crust at 400f for 15 minutes.  Remove rice
  and foil and bake at 375f for 10 minutes more or until it is pale
  golden. In a bowl with an electric mixer, beat the egg yolks.  Add
  the sugar gradually, beating until the mixture is thickened and pale.
  Beat in 1 cup of cream, rum, and 1/4 cup water.  Transfer the mixture
  to the top of a double boiler. Cook, stirring constantly until it
  registers 140f on a candy thermometer. Then cook for 3 minutes more.
  In a small saucepan, sprinkle the gelatine over 1/4 cup cold water.
  Let it soften for 5 minutes, and heat the mixture over low heat,
  stirring, until the gelatin is dissolved. Whisk into the custard, set
  the bowl in a larger bowl of ice water and let the mixture cool,
  stirring it occasionally, until it is the consistency of raw egg
  whites. Do not let the mixture set. In a bowl, beat the remaining
  cream until it just holds stiff peaks. Fold the whipped cream into
  the custard gently but thoroughly.  Pour the mixture into the pie
  shell. Chill for 3 hours or until set. Garnish with chocolate curls.
  a 1948 Gourmet Mag. favorite.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate-Caramel-Pecan Cheesecake
 Categories: Cheesecakes, Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  Graham cracker crumbs
     14 oz Package caramels
      1 c  Chopped pecans, toasted
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla extract
           Pecan halves
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine, melted
      5 oz Can evaporated milk
      2    8 oz packages cream cheese,
      2    Eggs
    3/4 c  Semisweet chocolate morsels,
 
  Combine graham cracker crumbs and butter, stirring well. Press mixture
  evenly onto bottom and 1 inch up sides of a 9-inch springform pan.
  Unwrap caramels; combine with milk and heat over low heat until
  caramels are melted, stirring often. Pour over graham cracker crust;
  sprinkle chopped pecans evenly over caramel layer and set aside. Beat
  cream cheese at high speed until light and fluffy; gradually add
  sugar, mixing well. Add eggs, one at a time, mixing well after each
  one. Stir in vanilla and chocolate; beat until blended. Spoon over
  pecan layer. Bake at 350 degrees for 30 minutes. Remove from oven,
  and run knife around edge of pan to release sides. Let cool to room
  temperature on a wire rack; cover and chill at least 8 hours before
  serving. Top with pecan halves and serve. From "Southern Living -
  1991 Annual Recipes"
 

 

 
      Title: White Chocolate & Almond Brownies
 Categories: Brownies, Nuts, Chocolate
      Yield: 16 servings
 
     12 oz White chocolate;
           - broken into pieces
      1 c  Unsalted butter
      3    Eggs
    3/4 c  Flour
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Slivered almonds
 
  Preheat oven to 325~. Grease and flour 9" square pan. Melt chocolate
  and butter in large saucepan over low heat, stirring constantly (do
  not be concerned if the white chcolate separates). Remove from heat
  when chocolate is just melted. With electric mixer, beat in eggs
  until mixture is smooth. Beat in flour and vanilla. Spread batter
  evenly in prepared pan. Sprinkle almonds evenly ove the top. Bake
  30-35 minutes or just until set in center. Cool completely in pan on
  wire rack. Cut into 2" squares.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Orange Ribbon Cake
 Categories: Box cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      4    Snickers; cut up
      1 pk Yellow cake mix
      1 ts Grated orange peel
      2 tb Milk

-------------------FLUFFY ORANGE FROSTING------------------------
      1 pk Fluffy white frosting mix
    1/2 c  Orange juice
      1 ts Grated orange peel

----------------------CHOCOLATE GLAZE---------------------------
      2    Snickers; cut up
      1 tb Milk
 
  Preheat oven to 350~. Grease and flour 2, 9" pans. Melt Snickers with
  milk until smooth. Cool to room temperature. Prepare cake mix
  according to package directions. Divide batter in half. Stir candy
  mixture into half the batter. Stir grated orange peel into remaining
  half. Spoon chocolate (Snickers) batter and yellow batter alternately
  into cake pans. MARBLED EFFECT! Bake 30-35 minutes. Let stand 10
  minutes in pans. Remove cakes and cool on racks. Frost with Fluffy
  Orange Frosting. Drizzle Chocolate Glze in a circle around edge of
  cake, allowing it to run down sides. Serves 10-12.
   CHOCOLATE GLAZE: Melt Snickers and milk together and cool until
  easily drizzled.
 

 

 
      Title: Lemon Chocolate Bars ( Part 1 )
 Categories: Bar cookies, Chocolate, Alcohol
      Yield: 12 servings
 
-----------------CHOCOLATE SHORTBREAD BASE----------------------
     10 tb Butter; cold
    1/3 c  Powdered Sugar
    1/3 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Unsweetened Cocoa
      1 c  Flour

---------------------LEMON CURD TOPPING--------------------------
      4 lg Egg Yolks
    3/4 c  Sugar
      3 oz Lemon Juice
           - about 2-1/2 lemons
      4 tb Butter
        pn Salt
      2 ts Lemon Zest

-------------------ORANGE GANACHE TOPPING------------------------
      1 oz Bittersweet Chocolate;
           -Finely Chopped
      2 tb Heavy Cream
  1 1/2 ts Grand Marnier
 
  Heat oven to 325~F. Use 8x8" pan and line bottom and two sides with a
  8x16" strip of foil. Whisk together the sugars and cocoa. In a large
  bowl, cream the butter and cocoa mixture until light and fluffy. Mix
  in the flour, adding in two parts, until incorporated. Pat dough into
  prepared pan. Use fork to prick dough all over. Bake for 40 minutes.
  While shortbread is baking, prepare the Topping.
 

 

 
      Title: Prize Winning Applesauce Brownies
 Categories: Bar cookies, Apples
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      1 c  Applesauce, natural sweet
      2 c  Granulated sugar
      4    Eggs
      2 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Flour
    2/3 c  Cocoa powder
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Crushed pecans
      1 c  Chocolate chips
 
  In a large bowl, combine the applesauce and the sugar and blend well.
  Beat in the eggs one at a time. Add the vanilla and beat well. Add
  the flour and the cocoa powder and beat well.Add the baking powder
  and the salt and beat. Stir in the nuts and the chocolate chips. Pour
  batter into a greased 13x9" baking pan and Bake at 350 F for 30-35
  minutes. Cool completely before cutting.
   Pat Empson 05/24 11:18 am
         FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 05/24 11:31 AM
  
  TO:      PAT EMPSON   (PFXX29A) FROM: PAT EMPSON (PFXX29A) SUBJECT:
  MM-MORE APPLES
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Peanutbutter Bar
 Categories: Ww
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -DENNIS SPIVEY   (NGNR19A)
      2 tb Black coffee or water
      1 tb Chunky Peanut Butter
      1 pk Chocolate Alba
    3/4 oz Uncooked Old Fashioned Oats
      2 tb Raisins
 
  Using a fork, is small mixing bowl, combine coffee (or water) and
  peanut butter, mixing until peanut butter is softened; add remaining
  ingredients and mix thoroughly (mixture will be stiff and sticky).
   Transfer mixture to sheet of wax paper or plastic wrap and using
  hands, press mixture together and shape into a log about 5 inches
  long and 1 1/2 inches wide. Tightly wrap log in the wax paper and
  freeze overnight. Makes 1 serving. EACH SERVING: 1 P, 1 B, 1 FAT, 1
  FRUIT, 1 MILK (302 Calories).
 

 

 
      Title: Frozen Chocolate Banana
 Categories: Ww, Fruits
      Yield: 2 servings
 
           -Pam Courson-DWHV03B
      1 md Banana; peeled and
           -cut in half crosswise
      2    Graham crackers; (2-1/2
           -in. squares) finely crushed
      1 ts Chocolate syrup
 
  Wrap banana halves in wax paper or foil and freeze till hard. On
  sheet of wax paper spread half the cracker crumbs; coat 1 banana half
  with 1/2 tsp syrup, then roll in crumbs. Repeat procedure with
  remaining banana half. Serve immediately or wrap in moisture- and
  vapor- resistant wrapping and store in freezer till ready to use.
  
  Makes 2 servings, 1/2 banana each Each counts as 1/2 B, 1 Fr, 10 opt.
  cals.
 

 

 
      Title: HEAVENLY CHOCOLATE BANANA "CREME" LOG
 Categories: Ww, Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Marie Herman, DHHS67B
      2 tb Part skim ricotta cheese
    1/2 ts Confectioner's sugar
    1/8 ts Vanilla extract
    1/2 md Banana; peeled, cut
           -lengthwise into 4
           -equal slices
    1/2 ts Chocolate syrup
    1/2 ts Shredded coconut
 
  In small bowl, combine cheese, sugar and vanilla, mixing well. Set 1
  banana slice on a dessert plate; spread with 1/3 of the cheese
  mixture, top with a banana slice, and spread with half of the
  remaining cheese mixture. Repeat with remaining banana slices and
  cheese mixture, ending with banana; spread with chocolate syrup and
  sprinkle with coconut.
  
  Each serving provides: 1/2 P, 1 FR, 25 opt. calories Per serving: 113
  calories, 4 G protein, 3 G fat, 19 G carbohydrate, 88 mg. calcium, 43
  mg. sodium, 10 mg. cholesterol. Source: WW Favorite Recipes Cookbook.
  Formatted for MM by Joyce Burton, PDPP83A.
 

 

 
      Title: Bisquick Fudge Brownies
 Categories: Chocolate, Brownies, Bisquick, Impossible
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 c  Chocolate chips
    1/4 c  Margarine
      2 c  Biscuit baking mix
      1 cn Sweetened condensed milk
      1    Eggs; beaten
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Preheat oven to 350~F. In large saucepan, over low heat, melt 1 cup
  chips with margarine; remove from heat. Add biscuit mix, condensed
  milk, egg and vanilla. Stir in remaining chips. Turn into
  well-greased 13x9" pan. Bake 20 to 25 minutes or until brownies begin
  to pull away from sides of pan. Cool. Garnish as desired. Cut into
  bars.
 

 

 
      Title: Hot Chocolate Souffles
 Categories: Baking, English, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      9 oz Semisweet chocolate, chopped
      2 tb Dark rum
      6    Lg Egg whites
      4    Lg Egg yolks
      1 tb Unsalted butter, melted
      1 pn Cream of tartar
 
  In the top of a double boiler set over simmering water, melt the
  chocolate, stirring, until it is smooth.  Remove the pan from the
  heat, add the egg yolks, one at a time, whisking well after each
  addition, and whisk in the rum and butter.  Transfer mixture to a
  large bowl. In a bowl with an electric mixer, beat the egg whites
  with the cream of tartar and a pinch of salt until they hold stiff
  peaks.  Stir a quarter of the egg whites into the chocolate mixture
  then fold in the remaining egg whites gently but thoroughly.  Spoon
  the mixture into 6 buttered 2/3 cup souffle dishes and bake them on a
  baking sheet in the middle of a preheated 400f oven for 10-12
  minutes, or until they are puffed and a tester comes out nearly
  clean. a 1982 Gourmet Mag. favorite from Homewood Park, a small hotel
  and restaurant in Bath, England
 

 

 
      Title: BROWNIE PIZZA
 Categories: Pizza, Desserts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           Brownie layer
    3/4 c  Butter, (1 1/2 sticks)
      4    Eggs
      1 c  Flour, all purpose
      1 pk Cream cheese,  (8 oz)
      1    Egg
           Assorted sliced fruit
      4    Unsweetened chocolate, squar
      2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
           Topping
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      2    Squares semi-sweet chocolate
 
      Heat oven to 350 degrees. Line 12 by 1/2 inch pizza pan with foil
  (to lift brownie from pan after baking); grease foil.
      Microwave unsweetened chocolate and margarine in large
  microwaveable bowl on high for 2 minutes or until margarine is
  melted. Stir until chocolate is completely melted.
      Stir 2 cups sugar into melted chocolate mixture. Mix in 4 eggs
  and 1 tsp vanilla until well blended. Stir in flour. Spread in
  prepared pizza pan. Bake for 30 minutes.
      Topping: Mix cream cheese, 1/4 cup sugar, 1 egg and 1/2 tsp
  vanilla in same bowl until well blended. Pour over hot, baked brownie
  crust.
      Bake 10 minutes longer or until toothpick inserted into center
  comes out with fudgy crumbs. Do NOT overbake. Cool in pan. Lift
  brownie pizza out of pan; peel off foil. Place brownie pizza on
  serving plate. Arrange fruit slices over cream cheese layer. Drizzle
  with melted semi-sweet chocolate. UPL by Dr.Jim Culveyhouse
  73330,2525
 

 

 
      Title: COFFEE LIQUEUR CHOCOLATE MOUSSE
 Categories: Alcohol, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Sugar
      4 oz Semi-sweet chocolate chips
      2    Egg whites, beaten stiff
    1/4 c  Coffee liqueur
      3 tb Cream
      1 c  Whipped cream, beaten
 
      In saucepan over very low heat, mix coffee liqueur and sugar;
  stirring until dissolved. Remove from heat. In top of double boiler,
  melt chocolate with cream, cool 20 minutes. Stir chocolate into
  coffee liqueur mixture. Carefully fold in egg whites, then whipped
  cream. Chill 3 hours before serving.
 

 

 
      Title: MAYAN TRUFFLES
 Categories: Alcohol, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Whipping cream
      1 ts Instant coffee
      6 oz Semi-sweet chocolate pieces
     12 oz Semi-sweet chocolate chips
    1/8 c  Coffee liqueur
    1/4 c  Cocoa
 
        1 ea
  
      Bring cream to the boiling point in a medium saucepan. Remove
  from heat and add 12 ounces chocolate chips and instant coffee,
  cover. Allow to sit 10 minutes. Remove lid and stir. Add coffee
  liqueur. Allow mixture to cool 2 hours in the refrigerator. Shape
  into small balls on wax paper-lined trays and place in freezer. Melt
  remaining chocolate and allow to cool slightly. Dip balls in the
  chocolate and roll in the cocoa. Store in the refrigerator.
 

 

 
      Title: COFFEE LIQUEUR CAKE
 Categories: Alcohol, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Chocolate cake mix, dry (18.
      4    Eggs
    1/2 c  Oil
      2 ts Instant coffee
      1    Swiss milk cocolate pudding
    2/3 c  Coffee liqueur
    1/2 c  Water
 
      Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Beat together all ingredients in a
  mixer at medium speed for 2 minutes. Pour into a greased and floured
  12 cup Bundt pan. Bake for 50 to 60 minutes or until pick inserted in
  center comes out clean. Cool in pan for 25 minutes. Drizzle with
  icing, garnish as desired. ICING 2 1/2 cups powdered sugar 1/3 cup
  cream 2 Tbsp coffee liqueur Sift powdered sugar into a bowl. Heat
  cream and add coffee until dissolved. Stir into powdered sugar and
  add coffee liqueur, to taste.
 

 

 
      Title: COFFEE LIQUEUR CREAM PIE
 Categories: Alcohol, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     24    Chocolate sandwich cookies,
      1 qt Chocolate ice cream
    1/2 c  Coffee liqueur
      2 c  Whipped cream, sweetened,bea
      3 tb Butter
      1 qt Vanilla ice cream
      1 c  Heath candy bars, crushed
 
      Mix crushed cookies with butter and press into a 9 inch pie pan.
  Chill. Stir chocolate ice cream to soften and blend in 1/4 cup coffee
  liqueur. Spoon into pie shell. Sprinkle with crushed Heath Bars and
  place in freezer 1 hour. Soften vanilla ice cream and add 1/4 cup
  coffee liqueur. Spoon over the chocolate mixture. Freeze overnight.
  Garnish by piping whipped cream around the pie. Cut into wedges and
  serve with a drizzle of coffee liqueur over the top.
 

 

 
      Title: Famous Amos Raisin-Filled Chocolate Chip Cook
 Categories: Cookies
      Yield: 72 servings
 
      2 c  Softened margarine-4 sticks
    3/4 c  Firmly packed light brown
           -sugar
    3/4 c  Granulated sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Water
      2    Eggs
  2 1/2 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 c  Raisins
      1 pk Chocolate chips-12 ounce
 
  Beat softened margarine, brown and white sugars, vanilla, water and
  eggs in a large bowl with electric mixer until creamy and thoroughly
  blended. By hand, stir in flour, baking soda and salt until well
  mixed. Stir in raisins and chocolate chips.  Using teaspoon from
  measuring set, spoon dough by teaspoonfuls onto cookie sheets. Allow
  1 to 1-1/2 inches between cookies for spreading.  Bake in moderate
  oven (375) for 8 minutes, or until cookies are nicely browned,
  depending on how crisp or well done you like them. Pat Empson 05/31
  01:43 pm
 

 

 
      Title: Giant Double Chocolate Chip Cookies
 Categories: Cookies
      Yield: 16 servings
 
           -Jo Ferry cmsj69b
    1/2 c  Shortening
      1 c  Brown sugar; packed
      1    Egg
    1/2 c  Sour cream
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
      3 c  Chocolate chips; divided
  1 3/4 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 c  Walnuts; chopped
 
    Heat oven to 350. Cream shortening with sugar. Mix in egg, sour
  cream, vanilla. Melt 1 1/2 cups chocolate chips and blend with
  creamed mixture. Stir flour with salt, baking powder, baking soda.
  Add dry ingredients to creamed mixture, stirring until smooth. Fold
  in nuts and remaining chocolate chips. Chill dough 1/2 hour. For
  giant cookies, use ice cream scoop or 1/4 cup dough for each cookie.
  Place on 3 greased baking sheets. Flatten slightly to 3 inches. Bake
  for 10 to 12 minutes or unti still slightly soft in the center. Makes
  16 giant cookies.
 

 

 
      Title: Clementine's Oatmeal Chocolate Chip Cookies
 Categories: Cookies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -Jo Ferry cmsj69b
  1 1/4 c  Margarine; softened
    3/4 c  Brown sugar; packed
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1    Egg
      1 ts Vanilla
  1 1/2 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/8 ts Nutmeg
      3 c  Oatsl
      2 c  Chocolate chips
      1 c  Walnuts; chopped
 
    Heat oven to 350. Cream margaine with sugars until light and
  fluffy. Beat in egg and vanilla. Stir flour with baking soda, salt
  and spices; add to creamed mixture, mixing well. Stir in oats. Fold
  in chips and nuts. Drop by rounded tablespoon onto ungreased cookie
  sheets. Bake 8 to 9 minutes for a chewy cookies, 10 to 11 minutes for
  a crisp cookie; remove to wire cooling racks. Store in tightly
  covered container. About 6 dozen 2" cookies.
 

 

 
      Title: Mini Morsel Shortbread Squares
 Categories: Cookies
      Yield: 3 servings
 
           -Jo Ferry cmsj69b
      1 c  Butter; softened
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1    Egg
      1 ts Vanilla
  2 1/4 c  Flour
      2 c  Mini chocolate chips
 
    Preheat oven to 350. In large mixer bowl, beat butter and sugar
  until creamy. Beat in egg and vanilla. Gradually beat in flour. Stir
  in 1 cup mini chocolate chips. Spread batter into ungreased 13x9" pan.
    Bake 30 to 33 minutes just until top begins to brown. Immediately
  sprinkle remaining 1 cup mini chocolate chips over top.
    Let stand 5 minutes or until chips become shiny and soft; spread
  chocolate over top. Cool 10 minutes. While still warm cut into 1 1/4
  inch squares. Cool completely. Makes about 3 dozen.
 

 

 
      Title: Confetti Cookies
 Categories: Cookies
      Yield: 3 servings
 
           -Jo Ferry cmsj69b
  2 1/4 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Butter; softened
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla
  1 1/2 c  Rainbow chocolate chips
 
    Preheat oven to 350. In small bowl, combine flour, baking soda and
  salt; set aside.
    In large mixer bowl, beat butter and sugar until creamy. Beat in
  eggs and vanilla. Gradually beat in flour mixture. Stir in rainbow
  chips. Drop by rounded measuring tablespoonfuls onto ungreased cookie
  sheets.
    Bake 11 t 12 minutes until edges are lightly browned. Let stand 2
  minutes. Remove from cookie sheets; cool. Makes about 3 dozen.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Mint Snow-Top Cookies
 Categories: Cookies
      Yield: 3 servings
 
           -Jo Ferry cmsj69b
  1 1/2 c  Flour
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Mint chocolate chips
      6 tb Butter; softened
      1 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
      2    Eggs
           Confectioners sugar
 
    In small bowl, combine flour, baking powder and salt; set aside. In
  small saucepan over low heat, melt 1 cup mint chocolate chips. (Or,
  microwave chips in bowl on HIGH power 1 minute; stir. Microwave on
  HIGH power 30 seconds longer; stir until smooth.)
    In large mixer bowl, beat butter and sugar until creamy. Add melted
  chips and vanilla. Beat in eggs. Gradually beat in flour mixture.
  Stir in remaining 1/2 cup chips. Wrap dough in plastic wrap; freeze
  30 minutes until firm.
    Preheat oven to 350. Shape dough into 1 inch balls; coat with
  confectioners sugar. Place on ungreased cookie sheets. Bake 10 to 12
  minutes until tops appear cracked. Let stand 2 minutes. Remove from
  cookie sheets; cool. Makes about 3 dozen.
 

 

 
      Title: Triple Treat Squares
 Categories: Cookies
      Yield: 3 servings
 
           -Jo Ferry cmsj69b
  1 1/2 c  Graham cracker crumbs
    1/4 c  Brown sugar
      6 tb Butter; melted
      1 pn Nutmeg
      2 c  Chocolate chips
      1 c  Flaked coconut
      1 c  Walnuts; chopped
      7 oz Jar of Marshmallow creme
      2 tb Milk
      1 ts Vanilla
 
    Heat oven to 350. Combine crumbs, sugar, butter and nutmeg. Press
  into 9x13" pan. Bake for 10 minutes; remove from oven. Mix chocolate
  chips with coconut and walnuts. Spread over first layer. Thin
  marshmallow creme with milk and vanilla. Drizzle over top. Bake
  additional 15 minutes. Cool before cutting into squares. Makes about
  32 squares.
 

 

 
      Title: Sailors' Favorite Chocolate Chip Cookie
 Categories: Cookies
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  2 1/4 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
    2/3 c  Peanut butter
    1/2 c  Shortening
  1 1/2 c  White sugar
      2 x  Eggs
      2 tb Milk
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Chocolate chips
 
  Beat peanut butter, shortening and sugar in large bowl until light and
  fluffy. Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition.
  Beat in milk and vanilla. Add dry ingredients and chips. Mix well.
  Drop dough by teaspoon on ungreased cookie sheets.  Bake at 375
  degrees for 11 to 13 minutes.
 

 

 
      Title: CHOCOLATE PEANUT BUTTER COOKIES
 Categories: Cookies, Desserts, Pnut butter
      Yield: 24 servings
 
           -FHMN87A Phill Bower
  1 1/2 c  Light brown sugar, packed
      1 c  Butter
  1 1/2 c  Peanut Butter
      1    Egg
      2 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 c  Chocolate chips
 
  In a large mixing bowl, cream butter and sugar until light and
  fluffy. Beat in peanut butter, egg and vanilla. Thoroughly blend
  flour and baking soda. Gradually add to creamed mixture. Fold in
  chocolate chips. Refrigerate dough for 1 hour. Preheat oven to350 F.
  Shape dough into 3/4 inch balls. Place on ungreased cookie sheets, 3
  inches apart. With the bottom of a glass, press each ball into a
  cookie 1 1/2 inches in diameter. Bake for 15 to 20 minutes or until
  lightly browned. From : the Ultimate Peanut Butter Cookbook by Arthur
  Boze
 

 

 
      Title: CRUNCHY CHOCOLATE PEANUT BUTTER BARS
 Categories: Cookies, Desserts, Pnut butter
      Yield: 24 servings
 
           -FHMN87A Phill Bower
    1/2 c  Light corn syrup
    1/3 c  Brown sugar, packed
      1 c  Peanut butter
      3 c  Rice cereal
      1 c  Semi-sweet chocolate pieces
      2 ts Vanilla
 
  In a 2 quart saucepan, combine corn syrup and brown sugar,. Cook and
  stir till mixture comes to a full boil. Stir in peanut butter. Remove
  from heat. Stir in cereal, chocolate pieces and vanilla. Stir in
  cereal, chocolate pieces and vanilla. Press into an ungreased 9x9x2
  inch pan. Chill 1 hour. Cut into bars. From
  : the Ultimate Peanut Butter Cookbook by Arthur Boze
 

 

 
      Title: GRAHAM CRACKER PEANUT BUTTER BARS
 Categories: Cookies, Desserts, Pnut butter
      Yield: 36 servings
 
           -FHMN87A Phill Bower
      1    18 oz jar peanut butter
    3/4 c  Butter
      1 lb Powdered sugar
      1 lb Graham crackers, crushed
     12 oz Milk chocolate morsels
 
  Graham crackers are to be coarsely crushed. Using an electric mixer,
  cream together peanut butter and butter until soft and smooth. Beat
  in powdered sugar until smooth, then beat in graham crackers. Beat
  until well blended and moist. Spread mixture in a 13x9x2 inch pan.
  Melt the chocolate morsels and pour over mixture. Refrigerate 3 or 4
  hours. Cut into bars. from the Ultimate Peanut Butter Cookbook by
  Arthur Boze
 

 

 
      Title: CHEWY PEANUT BUTTER BROWNIES
 Categories: Cookies, Desserts, Pnut butter
      Yield: 24 servings
 
           -FHMN87A Phill Bower
      4 oz Semisweet chocolate
    1/2 c  Creamy beanut butter
      1 c  Margarine
      4    Eggs
  2 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Flour; sifted
      1 c  Walnuts; chopped
 
  Melt chocolate, peanut butter and butter.  In a large bowl beat eggs,
  sugar, salt and vanilla.  Add melted chocolate mixture. Add flour
  gradually.  Mix well. Add the nuts. Pour into a greased 13x9x2-inch
  greased pan. Bake at 350 F. for 45 minutes to 50 minutes. Let cool,
  cut into squares.
  
  From ; the Ultimate Peanut Butter Cookbook  by  Arthur Boze
 

 

 
      Title: S'Mores Bars
 Categories: Desserts, Snacks
      Yield: 20 servings
 
      8 oz Quick Crescent Dinner Rolls
      6 oz Semi-sweet Chocolate Chips
     10    Marshamallows; cut in half
 
  Heat oven to 375~. Unroll dough into 2 long rectangles. Place in
  ungreased 13x9" pan; press dough over bottom, sealing perforations
  well. Sprinkle chips evenly over dough. Place marshmallow halves over
  chips, cut-side-down, in five rows of four. Bake at 375~ for 10-12
  minutes or until light golden brown. Cool about 15 minutes. Cut in
  squares around marshmallows. Makes 20 bars. TIP: For ease in cutting
  marshmallows, use kitchen scissors dipped in warm water.
 

 

 
      Title: Everything I Wanted In A Snack Snack
 Categories: Snacks, Chocolate, Nuts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Peanut Butter Captain
           - Crunch cereal
      2 c  Salted pretzel sticks
      2 c  M & M's
      2 c  Salted peanuts;
           - not dry roasted
      1 lg White chocolate coating
 
  Combine all in a large bowl. Melt 1 large package Candy Quick white
  chocolate flavor, and pour over cereal mixture. Mix thoroughly. Drop
  by large spoonfulls onto waxed paper. Allow to cool. Enjoy!
 

 

 
      Title: Puppy Chow
 Categories: Snacks, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Margarine
      1 c  Peanut Butter
      2 c  Powdered Sugar
     12 oz Chocolate Chips
     14 oz Crispix Cereal
 
  In a double boiler; melt the margarine, chocolate chips, and peanut
  butter together until smooth. Pour over the cereal and toss to coat.
  Place the powdered sugar into a paper bag. Pour the cereal mixture in
  and shake.
 

 

 
      Title: Milk Chocolate Popcorn
 Categories: Snacks, Chocolate, Nuts, Popcorn
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     12 c  Popped popcorn
     12 oz Salted peanuts
      1 c  Corn syrup
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine
     12 oz Milk chocolate chips
 
  In a large, greased, roasting pan, combine popcorn and nuts. In a
  large, heavy saucepan combine chocolate chips, corn syrup and butter.
  Cook over medium heat until mixture boils, stirring constantly. pour
  over popcorn toss well to coat. Bake in a preheated 300~ oven for 45
  minutes stirring frequently. Cool completely. Store in an airtight
  container for up to two weeks. Makes about 14 cups.
 

 

 
      Title: Popcorn Haystacks
 Categories: Snacks, Popcorn, Nuts, Chocolate
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      1 qt Popped popcorn
      1 c  Peanuts
      3 oz Chow mein noodles
     12 oz Chocolate chips
 
  Toss popped corn, peanuts, and cm noodles together in lg bowl Set
  aside. Place choco chips in glass bowl. Microwave on med high for 3
  mins. Pour over popcorn mixture. Toss until well mixed. Place
  spoonfuls of the tossed mixture on wax paper. Cool until firm. Stor
  in tightly covered container. Makes 24 haystacks.
 

 

 
      Title: Great Gorpies
 Categories: Snacks, Nuts, Chocolate
      Yield: 36 servings
 
      1 c  Margarine
      1 c  Brown sugar
      1    Handful* raisins
      1    Handful* peanuts
      1    Handful* chocolate chips
      2 c  Flour (white or half white
           -and half whole-wheat)
      1 ts Baking soda
      2 ts Milk
 
  Cream shortening and sugar till smooth. Add all the handfuls. Mix
  well, then add combined flour and baking soda. Add milk. Drop by
  tablespoons on greased cookie sheet. Bake at 350~ about 10 minutes or
  until done. Leave on cookie sheet a minute or two before lifting them
  off, as they might crumble. Makes 3 doz. *Handfuls are adult
  handfuls. If children are making this they will need 2-3 handfuls.
  Ratio of handfuls can be adjusted - you might want to go heavier on
  the raisins and peanuts and lighter on the chocolate chips.
 

 

 
      Title: Super Crunchy Snack Mix *
 Categories: Snacks, Nuts, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      4 c  Popcorn
      2 c  Super Golden Crisp cereal
      2 c  Mini marshmallows
      2 c  Semi sweet chocolate pieces
      1 c  Peanuts
      1 c  Raisins
 
  Combine all ingredients. Makes 11 cups.
 

 

 
      Title: Granola Gorp *
 Categories: Snacks, Nuts, Chocolate
      Yield: 8 servings
 
----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      3 c  Granola (any flavor)
      3 oz Chow mein noodles
      1 c  Salted peanuts
    1/2 c  Dates; cut up
    1/2 c  Dried apricots; cut up
    1/2 c  Raisins
    1/4 c  Margarine; melted
      6 oz Semisweet chocolate chips OR
           - butterscotch chips

-------------------------VARIATIONS------------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Oyster crackers
    3/4 c  Roasted pumpkin kernals
    3/4 c  Flaked -OR- shredded coconut
    3/4 c  M & M's
    3/4 c  Salted cashews
    3/4 c  Dried banana chips
    1/2 c  Salted sunflower nuts
    1/2 c  Dried apples; cut up
 
  Heat oven to 350~. Mix granola, noodles, peanuts, apricots and
  raisins. Pour margarine over granola mixture; toss until evenly
  coated. Spread in 9x13" ungreased pan. Bake, uncovered, stirring
  occasionally, 15 minutes; cool. Stir in the chips. Store in tightly
  covered container.
   VARIATIONS : Add any combination of the above variations with the
  granola. If using M & M's, add with the chips.
 

 

 
      Title: Muddy Buddies
 Categories: Snacks, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      9 c  Chex cereal
      1 c  Semi sweet chocolate chips
    1/2 c  Peanut butter
    1/4 c  Margarine
    1/4 ts Vanilla
  1 1/2 c  Confectioners sugar
 
  Use 9 cups of Chex brand cereals, mixed or all one kind. Place in a
  large bowl. Combine chocolate chips, peanut butter and margarine in a
  quart microwave safe bowl. Microwave on high for 1 to 1-1/2 minutes
  or until smooth, stirring after 1 minute. Stir in vanilla. Pour
  chocolate mixture over cereal, stirring until all pieces are evenly
  coated. Then pour cereal mix into a plastic zipper-lock bag with the
  powdered sugar. Seal securely. Shake until all pieces are well
  coated. Spread on wax paper to cool. Store in an air tight container.
  Makes 9 cups.
 

 

 
      Title: White Trash *
 Categories: Snacks, Nuts, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
     12 oz Golden graahams cereal
     24 oz Peanuts
      2 c  Peanut butter
    1/2 c  Butter
     12 oz Chocolate chips
     12 oz Raisins (opt)
  1 1/2 c  Powdered sugar
 
  Mix golden grahams and peanuts. Add raisins or another type nut. Melt
  together peanut butter, butter and chocolate chips. Coat with powdered
  sugar.
 

 

 
      Title: Vanilla Chip Cookies *
 Categories: Cookies, Nuts, Chocolate
      Yield: 42 servings
 
----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine; soften
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Light brown sugar; packed
      1 ts Vanilla
      1    Egg
      1 c  Flour
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Baking soda
      1 c  White chocolate chips
    1/2 c  Flaked coconut
      1 c  Macadamia nuts; chopped,
           - lightly toasted
 
  Preheat oven to 375~. Cream butter until light. Gradually add sugars,
  creaming well until blended. Beat in vanilla and egg. Stir together
  flour, salt and baking soda. Add flour mix to creamed mix, blending
  well. Stir in white chocolate, nuts and coconut. Drop by level
  tablespoonfuls onto ungreased cookie sheets. Bake for about 12
  minutes or until golden. Remove to wire racks to cool.
   NOTE: White coating chocolate may be substituted for white chocolate
  chips. It can be cut into chip size pieces.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Pecan Bars *
 Categories: Bar cookies, Nuts, Chocolate
      Yield: 36 servings
 
----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
  1 1/4 c  Flour
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
    1/2 c  Margarine; room temp
      1 c  Pecans; chopped

--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
    1/4 c  Margarine
      1 oz Semi sweet chocolate square
      3    Eggs
  1 1/4 c  Brown sugar; packed
      1 ts Vanilla
           Powdered sugar
 
  In large mixer bowl, combine flour, sugar, baking powder, cinnamon and
  butter until mixture resembles coarse crumbs. Mix in the pecans.
  Press mix into a buttered 13x9" pan. Bake at 350~ for 10 minutes
  until golden. Meanwhile, in small saucepan, combine butter and
  chocolate. Stir over low heat until the chocolate is melted. Remove
  from heat. Add the eggs, brown sugar and vanilla. Mix until blended.
  Pour over crust. Return to oven. Bake 20 minutes longer until top is
  set. Cool. Dust with powdered sugar. Cut into bars.
 

 

 
      Title: Pecan Treats *
 Categories: Bar cookies, Chocolate, Nuts
      Yield: 20 servings
 
----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      1 c  Flour
      2 tb Brown sugar
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine; soften
      1 c  Heath brickle bits
      2    Eggs
    3/4 c  Brown sugar; firmly packed
      1 c  Pecans; chopped
    1/2 c  Flaked coconut
      3 tb Flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 c  Semi sweet chocolate chips
 
  In mixing bowl, combine 1 cup flour with the 2 tb brown sugar and
  butter until the mix resembles coarse crumbs. Pat onto bottom of
  10x7" pan or a 9" square pan. Bake at 350~ for 10-12 minutes until
  golden. Sprinkle with brickle bits. In mixing bowl, beat the eggs
  with the 3/4 cup brown sugar, pecans, coconut, 3 tb flour and baking
  powder. Pour mix evenly over the brickle chips in pan. Reduce oven
  temperature to 325~. Bake for 25-30 minutes, just until topping is
  golden. Immediately after removing from oven, sprinkle chocolate
  chips over top. Allow chips to melt. Spread over bars. Chocolate will
  not cover bars completely. Cool. Cut into bars.
 

 

 
      Title: Refrigerator Mocha Torte *
 Categories: Cakes, Tortes, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      1 c  Butter or margarine
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Powdered sugar
      8 oz Semi sweet chocolate squares
      2 tb Milk
      2 ts Instant coffee powder
     25    Graham crackers
 
  Cream butter with eggs and powdered sugar, whipping until light and
  fluffy. In top of double boiler, melt chocolate over hot water. Blend
  in the milk and coffee powder, stirring well until blended. Fold into
  egg mix. If mix is to thin to spread easily, chill for a few minutes,
  stirring to check once in a while, as it will get firm when cold.
  Line a 9x5" loaf pan with plastic wrap. Spread 1/4" layer of
  chocolate mix on the bottom of pan. Top with a layer of graham
  crackers. Spread 1/4" of chocolate mix. Repeat this process 5 times.
  Spread remaining chocolate mix over top and sides. Wrap and chill for
  2 hours or more until firm. To serve; remove torte from pan. Peel off
  plastic wrap. Smooth surface with knife dipped in hot water. Place on
  serving plate. Slices best after it has been at room temperature for
  30 minutes.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Mint Cake *
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate, Frostings
      Yield: 6 servings
 
----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------

----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
      1 c  Flour
    1/3 c  Cocoa powder
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Baking soda
    3/4 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Shortening
      1    Egg
      1 ts Peppermint extract
    2/3 c  Milk; cold

--------------------------FROSTING-------------------------------
      2 c  Powdered sugar; sifted
      2 tb Butter or margarine
    1/4 ts Peppermint extract
      2 tb To 3, milk
      2 dr Green food coloring
           Thin chocolate covered mint
           - candies; halved
           Chocolate chip mint ice
           - cream (opt)
 
  Stir together flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, salt and baking
  soda. Beat together sugar and shortening on high speed of mixer until
  fluffy. Beat in egg and peppermint extract. Add dry ingredients to
  creamed mix, alternating with milk, beating well after each addition.
  Pour into greased and floured 9" round cake pan. Bake at 350~ for
  25-30 minutes or until cake tests done. Cool 10 minutes. Turn out
  onto rack to cool completely. For frosting, beat together the sugar,
  butter, extract and enough milk to make spreadable consistency. Tint
  frosting green. Place cake layer on serving platter. Frost top and
  sides of cake. Decorate with mint halves. Serve with ice cream. 9:55
  PM
 

 

 
      Title: Bourbon Chocolate Cake *
 Categories: Box cakes, Frostings, Chocolate, Alcohol, Nuts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      1 pk Chocolate cake mix, with
           - pudding
      3    Eggs
    1/2 c  Bourbon whiskey
    1/2 c  Water; cold
    1/3 c  Vegetable oil

--------------------------FROSTING-------------------------------
      1 pt Whipping cream
    1/3 c  Unsweetened cocoa powder
    1/2 c  Powdered sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Bourbon
      1 c  Nuts; chopped
 
  Butter and flour two 9" round cake pans. Combine cake mix, eggs,
  bourbon, cold water and vegetable oil in large bowl of mixer. Beat
  for 2 minutes on high speed until very light. Pour into pans. Bake at
  350~ for 30 minutes or until tests done. Cool in pans 10 minutes.
  Remove. Cool completely. Split layers in half horizontally. Spread
  frosting over each cake layer. Sprinkle with walnuts. Stack layers.
  Cover sides with frosting. Chill at least 2 hours. FROSTING: In large
  mixing bowl, combine whipping cream, cocoa, powdered sugar and
  vanilla. Beat until stiff then fold in the bourbon.
 

 

 
      Title: Sigi's Chocolate Torte *
 Categories: Cakes, Tortes, Chocolate, Frostings
      Yield: 10 servings
 
----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      1 lb Pound cake, ready made
      6 oz Semi sweet chocolate chips
      3 tb Water; boiling
      4    Egg yolks
    1/2 c  Butter; softened
      1 ts Vanilla -OR- rum
           Nuts; chopped, any kind
 
  Prepare favorite pound cake in loaf shape, or thaw if frozen. Slice
  cake into 4 even horizontal slices. Place chocolate chips in blender.
  Whirl about 3 seconds until pieces are a coarse powder. Add boiling
  water. Whirl until smooth. Blend in yolks. Add butter, whirling until
  smooth, followed by either rum or vanilla extract. Spread evenly
  between cake layers, on sides and top. If icing is too thin,
  refrigerate a few minutes until of spreading consistency. Decorate
  cake with nuts. Refrigerate cake about 3 hours before slicing to
  serve. Keep leftover cake covered in refrigerator.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Nut Upside-down Cake *
 Categories: Bundt cakes, Chocolate, Nuts
      Yield: 10 servings
 
----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      2 tb Butter or margarine
    1/4 c  Brown sugar
    2/3 c  Light corn syrup
    2/3 c  Heavy cream
      1 c  Walnuts; coarsely chopped

----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
  1 3/4 c  Flour
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine; soft
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs; separated
      3 oz Unsweetened chocolate; melt
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Milk
 
  Melt 2 tb butter in small saucepan; stir in brown sugar. Heat until
  bubbly. Stir in corn syrup and cream; heat, stirring constantly, just
  to boiling. Add nuts. Pour into a well greased 10" bundt pan. Set
  aside while preparing cake. Preheat oven to 350~. Sift flour, baking
  powder and salt. Mix butter and sugar until well combined. Add egg
  yolks, melted chocolate and vanilla; mix well. Add flour mix
  alternately with milk. Beat egg whites until stiff; fold into cake.
  Spoon over nut mixture in pan. Bake for 35-45 minutes or until tested
  done. Cool 15 minutes then remove from pan.
  
  Mom Anderson.
 

 

 
      Title: Banana German Chocolate Cake *
 Categories: Box cakes, Chocolate, Fruits
      Yield: 12 servings
 
----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------

----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
      1 pk German chocolate cake mix
      1 c  Ripe bananas; sliced
      1 c  Water
    1/3 c  Oil
      3    Eggs

--------------------------FROSTING-------------------------------
      1 cn Coconut, Almond OR Pecan
           - ready to spread frosting
    1/4 c  Bananas; mashed

---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
      1 oz Unsweetened chocolate, melt
    1/2 c  Powdered sugar
  1 1/2 ts Water
 
  Heat oven to 350~. Grease and flour 13x9" pan. In large bowl, combine
  cake mix, bananas, water, oil and eggs. Beat at low speed until
  moistened; beat 2 minutes at highest speed. Pour batter into prepared
  pan. Bake for 30-40 minutes or until tested done. Cool completely. In
  small bowl, combine frosting and mashed bananas. Spread over cooled
  cake. In small bowl, combine melted chocolate and powdered sugar. Add
  water until desired consistency, blending until smooth. Drizzle over
  frosting. Store in refrigerator.
 

 

 
      Title: SALTINE CANDY W/CHOCOLATE AND NUTS
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Gifts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -ELAINE RADIS BGMB90B
     40    Saltines
      1 c  Butter; don't use margarine
      1 c  LIGHT brown sugar; not dark
     12 oz Chocolate chips
      1 c  Nuts; chopped, YOUR choice
 
  This recipe was given to me by a dear friend...who has impeccable
  taste, in cooking and friends, <g>! Line up the saltines on a jelly
  roll pan that has been LINED with FOIL that makes a bigger rim then
  the pan. There should be 5 rows of 8.
   Melt butter and add LIGHT brown sugar.  Stir often and bring to a
  full rolling boil for EXACTLY 3 minutes.
   Pour over the saltines and bake in a 400 oven for 5 minutes.
   Sprinkle with chocolate chips and wait until they are almost melted;
  spread over all the saltines.  Drop the nuts over top as evenly as
  possible.
   Refrigerate for two hours and then break up into pieces. Can be
  stored in a tin.
  
  Aunt Betty says that you don't have to worry about storing..they'll
  NEVER last.  I am going to try these next week.
 

 

 
      Title: NEVER ON SUNDAY CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM
 Categories: Ice cream, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Ellie Collin-CMKD93F
      2 c  Heavy cream
      2 c  Half and half
    2/3 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Unsweetened Cocoa powder
  2 1/2 oz Semi-sweet chocolate,chopped
      6    Eggs, well-beaten
    1/2 c  Jack Daniels whiskey
 
  Bring cream and half and half to a simmer in a large heavy saucepan.
  Add sugar and cocoa; stir until sugar dissolves. remove from heat. Add
  chocolate, stir until smooth. Gradually whisk 1/2 cup chocolate
  mixture into eggs. Return mixture to saucepan. Stir over medium-low
  heat for 10-15 minutes or until mixture thickens and coats the back
  of a spoon. Strain into bowl. Cool mixture completely, stirring
  often. Stir whiskey into custard. Pour into a 1 quart ice cream
  churn. Freeze according to manufacturer's directions. Store in a
  covered container for several hours to mellow the flavor. If ice
  cream is frozen solid, soften in refrigerator before serving.
  Formatted by Marge Nemeth.
 

 

 
      Title: MEXICAN CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM
 Categories: Desserts, Ice cream, Chocolate
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -Stan Sease-BHRX57A
      3    EGGS
      1 c  SUGAR
      2 qt HALF AND HALF
     16 oz CHOCOLATE SYRUP
    1/2 ts GROUND CINNAMON
      1 tb VANILLA EXTRACT
    1/4 ts ALMOND EXTRACT
 
  Beat eggs at medium speed on an electric mixer until frothy.
  Gradually add sugar, beating until thick. Heat half and half in a
  3-quart saucepan over low heat until hot. Gradually stir about
  one-fourth of hot mixture INTO eggs; add remaining hot mixture,
  stirring constantly. Cook over low heat until mixture is slightly
  thickened and reaches 165 degrees. Remove form heat, and stir in
  chocolate syrup and remaining ingredients. Cool in refrigerator. Pour
  into freezer can on a 1 gallon freezer. Freeze according to
  manufacturer's instructions. Let ripen at at least 1 hour. Yield
  about 1 gallon.
 

 

 
      Title: CHOCOLATE CHIP COOKIE DOUGH ICE CREAM
 Categories: Ice cream, Chocolate
      Yield: 24 servings
 
           -Eileen Shaughnessy-XSPC52B
      2 c  Milk
  1 3/4 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 c  Half & Half
      1 tb Vanilla Extract
      4 c  Whipping Cream
           Pillsbury Chocolate Chip
           Cookie Dough (large size)
           Or use homemade cookie dough
 
  Take the chocolate cookie dough out of fridge and leave out till
  needed. Scald milk until bubbles form around edge. Remove from heat.
  Add sugar and salt. Stir until dissolved. Stir in half and half,
  vanilla, and whipping cream. Cover and refrigerate 30 minutes. Freeze
  as directed by your ice cream machine's instructions. Once ice cream
  has been through the entire ice cream machine process and is now a
  chilled soft ice cream, add the chocolate chip cookie dough. Just
  break up the dough as best you can with your hands and drop it in
  small clusters into the soft ice cream. Try to mix it around to
  ensure that the cookie dough is evenly distributed throughout the ice
  cream. Put the ice cream in the freezer for several hours until
  hardened. Origin: We pretty much took our vanilla ice cream recipe
  and added the chocolate chip cookie dough. You can easily use the
  Pillsbury cookie dough, but it's cheaper and better to use homemade.
  Our Mrs. Field's Chocolate Chip Cookie Dough recipe makes this
  especially yummy! -----
 

 

 
      Title: NEW YORK SUPER FUDGE CHUNK-BEN AND JERRY'S
 Categories: Ice cream, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  White chocolate, chop coarse
    1/4 c  Semisweet chocolate, chopped
    1/4 c  Pecan halves, chopped
    1/4 c  Walnuts, chop coarse
    1/4 c  Halved choco-covered almonds
      4 oz Unsweetened chocolate
      1 c  Milk
      2    Large eggs
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  Heavy or whipping cream
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      1 pn Salt
 
  1. Combine the coarsely chopped chocolate, pecans, walnuts and
  chocolate covered almonds in a bowl, cover and refrigerate, 2.Melt
  the unsweetened chocolate in the top of a double boiler over hot, not
  boiling water. Whisk in the milk, a little at a time, and heat,
  stirring constantly, until smooth. Remove from the heat and let cool.
  3.Whisk the eggs in a mixing bowl until light and fluffy, 1-2
  minutes. Whisk in the sugar, a little at a time, then continue
  whisking until completely blended, about 1 minute more. Add the
  cream, vanilla and salt and whisk to blend. 4. Pour the chocolate
  mixture into the cream mixture and blend. Cover and refrigerate until
  cold, about 1-3 hours, depending on your refrigerator. 5. Transfer
  the cream mixture to an ice cream maker and freeze following the
  manufacturer's instructions. 6. After the ice cream stiffens( about 2
  minutes before it is done), add the chocolate and nuts, then continue
  freezing until the ice cream is ready. 2:12 AM
  
  Makes one Generous Quart. Note: "New York Super Fudge Chunk was
  developed as a regional flavor for the sophisticated New York palate.
  After coming up with several variations in our Burlington lab,we
  packed the samples in dry ice and shipped them by bus to our New
  
  york consultants, a group of musicians on Manhattan's Upper West Side.
  Following several weeks of refinement and discussion, we all agreed
  on this final recipe- a chocolate lover's dream." from Ben and
  Jerry's Homemade Ice cream and Dessert book, by Ben Cohen and Jerry
  Greenfield,(pg 34).
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Maple Nut Bars
 Categories: Bar cookies, Chocolate, Nuts
      Yield: 30 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Flour; unsifted
    2/3 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Margarine or butter; cold
      2    Eggs
     14 oz Sweetened condensed milk
  1 1/2 ts Maple flavoring
      2 c  Nuts; chopped
      1 c  Semi-sweet chocolate chips
 
  Preheat oven to 350~F. In a large bowl, combine flour, sugar and
  salt; cut in margarine until crumbly. stir in 1 beaten egg. Press
  evenly in a 9x13" pan. Bake for 25 minutes. Meanwhile, in medium
  bowl, beat sweetened condensed milk, remaining egg and flavoring;
  stir in nuts. Sprinkle chocolate chips evenly over the prepared
  crust. Top with the nut mixture. Bake for 25 minutes more or until
  lightly brown. Cool. Cut into bars. Store tightly covered at room
  temperature. Makes 24 - 36 bars.
 

 

 
      Title: Grand Prize Winning Maple Walnut Mousse Pie
 Categories: Pies, Nuts, Freezer, Chocolate
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3    Eggs; separated
    1/8 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Maple syrup
      2 c  Cool Whip
      1 c  Walnuts; chopped
      2 tb Semi-sweet chocolate; shaved
      1    Chocolate crumb pie shell
 
  Beat egg yolks until lemon colored. Add salt and maple syrup. Cook in
  top of double boiler until yolk mixture thickens. Cool. Beat egg
  whites until stiff. Combine maple mixture, egg whites, and 2/3 of the
  Cool Whip, using a folding motion. Fold in 3/4 cup of the nut meats.
  Scrape into baked pie shell. Cover with remaining whipped topping.
  Sprinkle with remaining nut meats and chocolate shavings. Freeze for
  a minimum of four hours.
 

 

 
      Title: Maple Brickle Nut Torte **
 Categories: Box cakes, Nuts, Tortes, Chocolate
      Yield: 16 servings
 
----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------

----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
      1 pk Butter recipe cake mix
      3    Eggs
      1 ts Maple extract
    1/4 c  Margarine or butter softened
      1 c  Water
    3/4 c  Walnuts; chopped finely

--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      1 tb Instant chocolate flavor
           - drink mix
      1 ts Instant coffee
      2 tb Water; hot
  1 3/4 c  Powdered sugar
    1/4 c  Heath Bit's of Brickle
    1/3 c  Margarine or butter; soften

--------------------------FROSTING-------------------------------
      8 oz Cool Whip; thawed
    1/2 c  Powdered sugar
           Walnuts; whole or halves
 
  Grease and flour two 8" or 9" round cake pans. In large bowl, blend
  all cake ingredients, except nuts, until moistened. Beat 2 minutes at
  high speed; fold in nuts. Pour batter into prepared pans. Bake 9"
  layers for 30-40 minutes; 8" layers for 35-45 minutes, at 325~. Cool
  15 minutes in pans; loosen sides and remove from pans. Cool
  completely. In a small bowl, dissolve drink mix and instant coffee in
  hot water. Add powdered sugar, Bit's of Brickle and margarine; beat
  until fluffy. Slice cooled cake into 4 layers; gently spread 1/3
  filling between each layer. Frosting: In small bowl, combine Cool
  Whip and powdered sugar. Frost top and sides of cake. Garnish cake
  with whole or halves walnuts. Refrigerate cake for at least 2 1:41 PM
  
  hours.
 

 

 
      Title: Double Deluxe All American Brownie
 Categories: Brownies, Chocolate
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      2 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 c  Flour
    3/4 c  Cocoa powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Soda
      1 c  Butter or margarine
      4    Eggs
      2 ts Vanilla
  1 1/2 c  Semi-sweet chocolate chips
      1 c  Nuts; chopped
 
  Preheat oven to 350~F. Grease lightly 13x9" pan. Stir sugar, flour,
  cocoa, soda, and salt; set aside. Mix melted butter, eggs and vanilla
  until smooth. Add flour mixture and stir until moistened. Fold in
  chocolate chips and nuts. Spread batter in prepared pan. Bake for
  35-40 minutes. Do not overbake.
 

 

 
      Title: Pudding Brownies
 Categories: Brownies, Chocolate
      Yield: 18 servings
 
      4 oz Chocolate pudding
    1/2 c  Unsifted flour
    1/4 ts Baking powder
    1/3 c  Butter
    2/3 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Nuts; chopped
      2    Eggs
 
  Combine: Flour, pudding mix and baking powder. Mix well. Melt butter
  in sauce pan. Remove from heat. Beat eggs in one at a time. Blend in
  vanilla and pudding mixture. Spread in 8" square pan and bake at
  350~F for 35 minutes. Do not overbake. Cool in pan. Ice or cut into
  bars.
 

 

 
      Title: Hershey's Blondies
 Categories: Brownies, Chocolate
      Yield: 15 servings
 
      6 tb Butter
    3/4 c  Light brown sugar
      1    Egg
      1 tb Milk
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Soda
    1/8 ts Salt
     10 oz Chocolate chunks or chips
    1/2 c  Nuts; chopped (opt)
 
  Mix flour, soda and salt, set aside. Cream butter, sugar, brown sugar
  and vanilla. Add flour mix and beat until creamy. Add chocolate chips
  and nuts if desired. Bake in 9x9" pan at 350~ for 20-25 minutes.
 

 

 
      Title: Honey Brownies
 Categories: Brownies, Nuts, Chocolate
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      1 c  Semisweet chocolate chips
      6 tb Butter or margarine
      2    Eggs
    1/3 c  Honey
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder
        ds Salt
      1 c  Walnuts; chopped
 
  Preheat oven to 350~F. Butter an 8 inch square pan. Melt chocolate and
  butter in medium sized heavy saucepan over low heat. Remove from
  heat; cool slightly. Stir in eggs, honey and vanilla. Combine flour,
  baking powder and salt in small bowl. Stir in chocolate mixture with
  walnuts. Spread batter evenly in prepared pan. Bake 20-25 minutes or
  just until center feels springy. Cool in pan on wire rack. Cut into
  2" squares.
 

 

 
      Title: Peanut Butter Layered Brownies
 Categories: Brownies, Microwave, Chocolate
      Yield: 24 servings
 
-----------------------BROWNIE LAYER----------------------------
      4    Unsweetened chocolate square
    3/4 c  Margarine or butter
      2 c  Sugar
      3    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  All-purpose flour
      1 c  Peanuts; chopped

--------------------PEANUT BUTTER LAYER-------------------------
      1 c  Creamy-style peanut butter
    1/2 c  Powdered sugar
      1 ts Vanilla

---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
      4    Squares semi-sweet chocolate
    1/4 c  Margarine or butter
 
  Preheat oven to 350~. Microwave unsweetened chocolate and 3/4 c.
  margarine in large microwaveable bowl on HIGH 2 minutes or until
  margarine is melted. STIR UNTIL CHOCOLATE IS COMPLETELY MELTED. Stir
  granulated sugar into melted chocolate mixture. Mix in eggs and 1 t.
  vanilla until well blended. Stir in flour and peanuts. Spread batter
  in greased 13x9" pan. Bake for 30-35 minutes or until toothpick
  inserted in center comes out with fudgey crumbs. DO NOT OVERBAKE!
  Cool in pan. Mix peanut butter, powdered sugar and 1 t. vanilla in
  separate bowl until well blended and smooth. Spread over brownies.
  Microwave semi-sweet chocolate and 1/4 c. margarine in small
  microwaveable bowl on HIGH for 2 minutes or until margarine is
  melted. STIR UNTIL CHOCOLATE IS COMPLETELY MELTED. Spread over peanut
  butter layer. Cool until set. Cut into squares.
 

 

 
      Title: Delicious Brownies
 Categories: Brownies, Chocolate, Nuts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1    Double Fudge Brownie Mix
      6 oz Nestles chocolate chips
      4 oz Almonds; sliced
 
  In a 9x13 pan, sprinkle the chocolate chips and nuts over the prepared
  Brownie Mix and cook according to package directions. Be careful not
  to overcook; if anything, "undercook" and then let them cool for at
  least an hour before you cut them in 2" squares (or 3" to be really
  impressive). And if anyone asks you where you got the recipe, just
  smile and say it's a secret.
 

 

 
      Title: Fudgey Brownies
 Categories: Brownies, Chocolate, Nuts
      Yield: 20 servings
 
      2    Squares unswtnd chocolate
    1/3 c  Butter
    2/3 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder
      2    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts *
 
  * or use 3/4 cup Angel Flake coconut
  *******************************************************
  ***************** Melt chocolate with butter in saucepan over very
  low heat; stirring constantly until smooth. Remove from heat. Mix
  flour, salt and baking powder. Beat eggs thoroughly. Gradually beat
  in sugar. Blend in chocolate mixture and vanilla. Add flour mixture;
  stir well. Stir in nuts. Spread in greased 8" square pan. Bake at
  350~F degrees for 25 minutes (moist chewy brownies) or about 30
  minutes (cake like brownies). Cool in pan, cut into squares or bars.
  Yield - 20 brownies Note: Recipe may be doubled. Bake in greased
  13"x9" pan for 25-30 min.
 

 

 
      Title: Beacon Hill Brownies
 Categories: Brownies, Chocolate, Nuts
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      8 oz Unsweetened chocolate
      1 c  Butter
      5    Eggs
      3 c  Sugar
      1 tb Vanilla
  1 1/2 c  Flour
      2 c  Walnuts; coarsely chopped
 
  Melt chocolate with butter in saucepan over very low heat; stirring
  constantly until smooth. Cool slightly. Beat eggs, sugar, and vanilla
  in a large mixing bowl at high speed 10 min. Blend in chocolate at
  low speed. Add flour, beating just to blend. Stir in walnuts. Spread
  in greased 13x9" pan. Bake at 375~ for 35-40 minutes. (do not
  overbake). Cool in pan. Cut into bars or squares. Makes 24-32
 

 

 
      Title: Impossible Brownie Pie
 Categories: Impossible, Brownies, Chocolate, Nuts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4    Eggs
    1/2 c  Brown Sugar; Packed
      4 oz Chocolate; Melted, cooled
    1/4 c  Margarine or butter; soften
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Bisquick
    3/4 c  Nuts; Chopped
 
  Preheat oven to 350~. Grease 9" pie plate. Beat all ingredients
  except nuts until smooth; 2 minutes in blender on high, stopping
  blender occasionally to stir, or 2 minutes with hand beater. Pour
  into plate; sprinkle with nuts. Bake until knife inserted in center
  comes out clean, 30 to 35 minutes. Serve with ice cream, if desired.
 

 

 
      Title: Dark Chocolate Brownies
 Categories: Brownies, Chocolate
      Yield: 16 servings
 
    2/3 c  Unsalted butter
      2 oz Unsweetened chocolate;
           - cut into small pieces
      2 oz Semisweet chocolate;
           - cut into small pieces
      1 c  Granulated sugar
    3/4 c  Light brown sugar; packed
      3    Jumbo eggs
  1 1/2 c  Sifted all-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Vanilla
  1 1/2 c  Walnuts; coarsely chopped
           - OR pecans
 
  PREHEAT THE OVEN TO 375~. Melt the butter with the four squares of
  chocolate in a large saucepan over low heat, stirring often. Remove
  the pan from the heat and mix in the granulated and brown sugars,
  eggs (one at a time), flour, salt, vanilla and nuts. Spread the
  batter into a well-buttered 9x9" baking pan, pushing it well into the
  corners and smoothing the top. Bake the brownies uncovered for 35-40
  minutes, or until the brownies feel fairly firm and begin to pull
  away from the sides of the pan. Cool the brownies in the upright pan
  on a wire rack for at least 30 minutes. Cut them into large squares.
 

 

 
      Title: Fudge-Topped Brownies
 Categories: Brownies, Chocolate
      Yield: 40 servings
 
      1 c  Margarine; melted
      2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Flour
    2/3 c  Cocoa
    1/2 ts Baking powder
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Milk
      3 ts Vanilla
     12 oz Chocolate Chips
      1 cn Sweetened condensed milk
 
  Preheat oven to 350~. In large bowl, combine margarine, sugar, flour,
  cocoa, baking powder, eggs, milk, and 1 1/2 tsp vanilla. Mix well.
  Spread in greased 13x9" pan. Bake 40 minutes. Just before brownies
  are done, in heavy saucepan, over low heat, melt chips with Eagle
  milk, and remaining vanilla. Remove from heat. Immediately spread
  over hot brownies. Cool. Chill, cut into bars. Store covered, at room
  temperature. 36-40 brownies.
 

 

 
      Title: Quick Brownies
 Categories: Brownies, Chocolate
      Yield: 12 servings
 
     16 oz Semi-sweet chocolate chips
    2/3 c  Sweetened condensed milk
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      1 c  Walnuts; coarsely chopped
 
  In top of double boiler, placed over simmering water, melt chocolate.
  Stir in Sweetened condensed Milk. Remove from heat. Stir in remaining
  ingredients. Turn into greased, waxed paper OR metal foil-lined and
  greased again 8x8" pan. Bake in 375~ oven until toothpick inserted in
  center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Turn out of pan onto cake
  rack. Peel off paper. Cool. With sharp knife cut into 2" squares.
 

 

 
      Title: Potato Chip Brownies
 Categories: Brownies, Chocolate
      Yield: 12 servings
 
    2/3 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Butter
      2    Eggs; well beaten
      2    Unsweetened chocolate square
      1 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
    3/4 c  Potato chips; crushed
 
  Sift flour with baking powder and salt. Melt butter and chocolate.
  Beat the eggs well and add sugar gradually, beating well. Add the
  chocolate mix and vanilla to eggs and blend. Add flour  and mix well.
  Add potato chips. Bake in a lightly greased 8" square pan in a 350~
  oven for 30-35 minutes. While warm, cut into squares.
 

 

 
      Title: Ultimate Chocolate Brownies
 Categories: Brownies, Chocolate
      Yield: 15 servings
 
--------------------------BROWNIE-------------------------------
    3/4 c  Hershey's cocoa
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    2/3 c  Butter; melted and divided
    1/2 c  Water; boiling
      2 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs
  1 1/3 c  Flour
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Mint or reg chocolate chips

--------------------BUTTERCREAM FROSTING-------------------------
      6 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Hershey's cocoa
  2 2/3 c  Confectioners sugar
    1/3 c  Milk
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Preheat oven to 350~F. Grease 13x9" pan. In medium bowl, combine
  cocoa and baking soda; blend in 1/3 c melted butter. Add the boiling
  water; stir until mixture thickens. Stir in sugar, eggs and remaining
  1/3 c melted butter; stir until smooth. Add flour, vanilla and salt;
  blend completely. Stir in chocolate chips; pour into prepared pan.
  Bake 35-40 minutes or until brownies begin to pull away from sides of
  pan. Cool completely; frost with Buttercream frosting. Cut into
  squares.
   Buttercream Frosting: Cream butter in small mixing bowl; add cocoa
  and sugar alternately with milk. Beat to spreading consistency; blend
  in vanilla.
 

 

 
      Title: Toffee Fudge Brownies
 Categories: Brownies, Chocolate, Nuts
      Yield: 25 servings
 
      6    Heath bars; 6 3/8 oz; broken
      1 c  Walnuts; chopped
  1 1/4 c  Sugar
      5 oz Unsweetened chocolate; chop
    1/2 c  Butter; soft
      4    Eggs
      1 tb Vanilla
    1/4 ts Salt
    2/3 c  Flour
 
  Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 325~F. Grease and
  flour 9 inch square baking pan. STEEL KNIFE: Combine toffee and
  walnuts in work bowl and chop coarsely using 6 to 8 on/off turns.
  Remove from work bowl and set aside. Combine sugar and chocolate in
  work bowl and mix using 6 on/off turns, then process until chocolate
  is as fine as sugar, about 1 minute. Add butter and blend 1 minute.
  Add eggs, vanilla and salt and blend until fluffy, about 40 seconds,
  stopping as necessary to scrape down sides of work bowl. Add flour
  and toffee mixture and blend using 4 to 5 on/off turns, just until
  flour is incorporated; do not overprocess (remove Steel Knife and
  blend mixture gently with spatula if necessary to mix in flour
  completely). Turn batter into prepared pan, spreading evenly. Bake
  until tester inserted in center comes out almost clean, about 50
  minutes (for firmer, cakelike brownies, bake about 5 minutes longer).
  Let cool in pan on rack. Cut into 1 3/4-inch squares. Store in
  airtight container. These are dark, moist and crunchy with bits of
  toffee candy.
 

 

 
      Title: Killer Brownies
 Categories: Brownies, Chocolate, Nuts
      Yield: 20 servings
 
      1 c  Butter OR
      1 c  Butter flavor Crisco
      2 c  Granulated sugar
      1 c  Light brown sugar
    2/3 c  Karo dark corn syrup
      6 lg Eggs
      6 oz Unsweetened chocolate
      2 c  Flour
      2 c  Walnuts or pecans,
           - coarsely broken
    1/4 ts Almond extract
 
  Butter the bottom and sides of two 8x8" square pans (not the same if
  you use 9x13). In a large bowl stir butter, sugars, and syrup. Stir
  in the eggs, one at a time until blended. In small saucepan, melt
  chocolate, stir into sugar mixture. Add almond extract. Add flour and
  stir until smooth. Add the nuts and stir until evenly distributed.
  Turn into prepared pans, spread evenly. Bake at 350~ about 40
  minutes. Place on wire rack to cool. Refrigerate uncovered until
  cool. Cut into bars and enjoy.
 

 

 
      Title: Brownie Oatmeal Gems
 Categories: Brownies, Chocolate
      Yield: 36 servings
 
      8 oz Semi sweet Chocolate
    1/4 c  Margarine or butter
    2/3 c  Corn syrup light
      2    Eggs; slightly beaten
    1/4 ts Salt
      4 c  Oats old fashioned
    2/3 c  Brown sugar; firm pack
      1 c  Walnuts; coarsely chopped
 
  In 2 quart saucepan, stir chocolate and butter over low heat just
  until chocolate melts. Remove from heat. Stir in corn syrup, eggs and
  salt. In large bowl, combine remaining ingredients. Pour chocolate
  mix over dry ingredients and mix well. Drop by tablespoonfuls on
  greased cookie sheet. Bake at 350~ for 15 minutes. Cookie will not
  change much during baking. Cool 5 minutes on cookie sheet. Remove;
  cool completely. For Chocolate Dipped Gems:Dip half of each cookie in
  4 oz. melted semi sweet or German chocolate.
 

 

 
      Title: Outrageous Brownies
 Categories: Brownies, Chocolate
      Yield: 24 servings
 
    1/2 c  Miracle Whip
      2    Eggs; beaten
    1/4 c  Water; cold
      1    Fudge Brownie mix
      7 oz Chocolate bars
    1/2 c  Pecans; chopped
 
  Preheat oven to 350~. Mix together miracle whip, eggs and water until
  well beaten. Add brownie mix, mixing until moistened. Coarsely chop
  two chocolate bars; stir into brownie mix along with chopped nuts.
  Pour into a greased 13 x 9 baking dish. Bake 30-35 minutes or until
  edges pull away from sides. Immediately top with the remaining
  chopped chocolate bar. Let stand 5 minutes or until chocolate is
  melted; spread evenly over brownies. Garnish with chopped nuts if
  desired. Cool. Cut into squares.
 

 

 
      Title: Death By Chocolate
 Categories: Desserts, Chocolate, Brownies
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      1 pk Fudge brownie mix
      3 pk Instant chocolate mousse
      8    Chocolate covered toffee bar
     12 oz Cool Whip topping; thawed
 
   * each mousse makes 4 1/2cup servings.
   * chocolate bars are 1.4 oz size either Skor or Heath bars.
   Preheat oven according to brownie package directions. Bake brownies
  according to package directions; let cool. Meanwhile, prepare
  chocolate mousse according to package directions. Break candy bars
  into small pieces in food processor or by gently tapping the wrapped
  bars with a hammer. Break up half the brownies into small pieces and
  place in the bottom of a large glass bowl or trifle dish. Cover with
  half the mousse, than half the candy, and then half the whipped
  topping. Repeat layers with the remaining ingredients. Yield: feeds
  up to 24 (OR: 1 serious Chocoholic!)
 

 

 
      Title: Velvet Chocolate Glaze
 Categories: Frostings, Brownies, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Unsweetened chocolate sqs
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Corn syrup light
      1 c  Powdered sugar
      1 tb Milk
      1 ts Vanilla

----------------KATHI IN SACRATOMATO  JUNE 1---------------------
 
  Melt chocolate. Blend in butter and light corn syrup. Stir in powdered
  sugar, milk and vanilla; mix well. Cover 8-inch square pan of
  brownies.
         FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 06/12 12:42 PM
  
  TO:      KATHI MERRITT   (PJXX83A) FROM: KATHI MERRITT (PJXX83A)
  SUBJECT: CHOCO-FREE FOR ALL
 

 

 
      Title: Walnut Raspberry Brownie
 Categories: Brownies, Chocolate, Nuts, Fruits
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      3    Unsweetened chocolate sqs
    1/2 c  Crisco
      3    Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Flour
  1 1/2 c  Walnuts; chopped
    1/3 c  Raspberry jam
 
  Melt chocolate and Crisco over warm water; cool slightly. Blend
  together eggs, vanilla, sugar and salt; stir in chocolate mixture,
  then flour. Fold in walnuts. Turn into well greased 8-inch square
  pan. Bake at 325~ for about 40 minutes. Spoon jam over hot brownies;
  spread carefully. Let cool. Top with Velvet Chocolate Glaze.
 

 

 
      Title: Snickers Bar Brownies
 Categories: Brownies, Box cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1    German Chocolate Cake Mix
    3/4 c  Melted margarine
    2/3 c  Sweetened condensed milk
      1    Large bag Snickers
           -or Milk Way Bars
 
  Mix cake mix with melted margarine and condensed milk, Spread out 1/2
  of the mixture into a 9x13 pan. Bake at 350~ for 10 minutes. Slice
  candy bars into little slices. Lay these on top of the baked crust.
  With the remaining batter-crumble it on top of the candy bars. It
  will have a crumbly texture. No need to spread it on top to make it
  smooth. Put it back into the oven and bake it at 350~ for 20 min.
 

 

 
      Title: Rocky Road Brownies
 Categories: Chocolate, Brownies, Nuts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  1 3/4 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Unsalted butter, softened
      3 lg Eggs
      4    Squares unsweetened
           -chocolate; melted, cooled
      2 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Unsweetened cocoa powder;
           -preferably Dutch
           -processed
    3/4 c  All-purpose flour
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Milk chocolate chips
      1 c  Chopped walnuts
     12    Marshmallows
 
  Put rack in center of oven and heat to 350~. Generously grease 9x13
  inch pan.  Coat with flour, tapping out the excess. Use mixer to
  cream sugar and butter until fluffy. Add eggs and mix until thick and
  lemon colored, about 2 minutes. Mix in chocolate and vanilla. Add
  cocoa, flour and salt. Slowly mix in batter until combined. Stir in
  chips and walnuts. Lay marshmallows sideways in prepared pan,
  allowing 1 1/2 inch border around the inside edge of the pan and
  spacing them evenly. Spoon batter (it's very thick) over marshmallows
  to hide them as much as possible. Evenly fill in center of pan with
  remaining batter, not adding batter to space between marshmallows and
  sides of pan (batter will spread during baking and reach sides). Bake
  until toothpick inserted into center comes out moist from melted
  chocolate (not batter), 25 to 35 minutes. Let cool completely on
  rack. Cut into 12 squares. Refrigerate until chilled. Use wide metal
  spatula to carefully transfer brownies to serving platter. Wrap
  airtight. Can be made a day in advance and refrigerated or frozen up
  to 3 months. Serve chilled or at room temperature. 1:59 PM
 

 

 
      Title: Noah's Ark Brownies
 Categories: Brownies, Chocolate, Nuts
      Yield: 42 servings
 
      1 lb Butter
    3/4 lb Semi-sweet chocolate
      3 c  Flour (minus 6 Tbsp.)
  2 1/4 ts Vanilla
      7    Eggs
      4 c  Sugar
      4 c  Walnuts; chopped
 
  Preheat oven to 350~. Over low heat, melt butter and chocolate.
  Remove from heat. Stir in flour and vanilla. With mixer, whip eggs
  and sugar until mixture resembles a yellow ribbon. Blend in chocolate
  mixture on slow speed. Stir in walnuts. Spread batter into a greased
  9x13" and a greased 8" square pan. Bake 35 minutes for large pan: 30
  minutes for small pan. Makes 3 1/2 dozen. Noah's Ark is a popular
  restaurant in the St. Louis area.
 

 

 
      Title: White Chocolate Chunk Brownies
 Categories: Brownies, Chocolate, Nuts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 tb Instant coffee powder
      1 tb Water
      2 c  Brown sugar; firmly packed
    3/4 c  Unsalted butter
      2 lg Eggs
      2 tb Coffee liqueur
      2 c  Flour
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      5 oz White chocolate; cut 3/4"
    3/4 c  Pecans; coarsely chopped
           - toasted
 
  Preheat oven to 350~. Butter a 10" diameter pan and line the bottom
  with parchment. Combine coffee powder and 1 tb. water in a heavy med.
  saucepan. Stir over medium low heat until coffee dissolves. Add sugar
  and butter and stir til butter melts. Pour into large bowl and cool
  to room temperature, stirring occasionally. Add eggs and coffee
  liqueur to butter mixture, whisk to combine. Sift flour, baking
  powder, and salt in small bowl. Add to butter mixture and stir to
  blend. Stir in chocolate and pecans. Pour batter into prepared pan.
  Bake until tester inserted in center comes out almost clean about 35
  minutes. Cool in pan on rack. Run small sharp knife around sides of
  pan to loosen brownie. Turn out on plate; peel off parchment. Cut
  into wedges to serve. Serve with caramel sauce and ice cream.
 

 

 
      Title: Hazelnut Chunk Brownies *
 Categories: Brownies, Nuts, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
    1/2 c  Hazelnuts
      1 c  Unsalted butter
      2 c  Sugar
      4    Eggs; beaten to blend
    1/2 c  Cocoa powder; unsweetened
      1 tb Vanilla
    1/3 c  All purpose flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      7 oz Semisweet chocolate;
           - coarsely chopped
 
  Preheat oven to 350~. Toast hazelnuts, husk and coarsely chop; set
  aside. Lightly butter 9x13" baking pan. Melt 1 cup butter in heavy
  large saucepan over low heat. Remove from heat and whisk in sugar,
  eggs, cocoa and vanilla. Stir in flour and salt. Add chopped
  chocolate and nuts. Spread batter in prepared pan. Bake until tester
  inserted in center comes out barely moist but not wet, 25 to 30
  minutes. Cool in pan on rack. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Wrap
  tightly.) Cut into 1 1/2-inch squares.
 

 

 
      Title: Award Winner Brownies
 Categories: Brownies, Chocolate
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      2    Eggs
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine; melted
    3/4 c  Chocolate; ground
    2/3 c  Unsifted flour
    1/4 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Walnuts; chopped
 
  Heat oven to 350~. Using a spoon, stir eggs with sugar and vanilla;
  add butter. Sift Ground Chocolate with flour, baking powder and salt.
  Stir into egg mixture; add nuts. Spread into greased 8 or 9" square
  pan. Bake at 350~ for 20-30 minutes. For extra chewy brownies, use 8"
  pan and less baking time. For cake like brownies use 9" pan and
  longer baking. Cut into squares.
 

 

 
      Title: Texas Longhorn Touchdown Brownies
 Categories: Brownies, Chocolate
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  Butter or margarine
    3/4 c  Unsweetened cocoa
      2 c  Sugar
      6 lg Eggs
      1 tb Vanilla
      2 c  All-purpose flour
      2 c  Pecan halves
    3/4 lb Semisweet chocolate; cut in
           - 1/2" chunks
 
  In a 3-4 quart pan over low heat, stir butter with cocoa until
  melted. Off the heat, beat in sugar. Add eggs and vanilla; beat well.
  Add flour, pecans, and chocolate; mix well. Spread batter in buttered
  9x13" pan. Bake in a 325~ oven until top feels dry in center, about
  35 minutes. Cool in pan. If baking ahead, wrap airtight when cool and
  hold up to a day. Cut into 12 to 16 pieces.
 

 

 
      Title: Coconut Brownies
 Categories: Brownies, Chocolate
      Yield: 16 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter
      2 c  Sugar
      4    Eggs
      3 ts Vanilla
  1 1/2 c  Sifted flour
    1/2 c  Unsweetened cocoa
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Flaked coconut
    1/2 c  Chocolate chips
      2 tb Sugar
    1/2 c  Walnuts; chopped (opt)
 
  Melt butter over low heat, then remove. Add 2 c sugar. Beat. Add eggs
  and vanilla. Blend. Add flour, cocoa, salt. Mix. Stir in coconut.
  Pour into greased 13x9" pan. Sprinkle remaining ingredients over top.
  Bake at 350~ for 30 minutes. Cool in pan and cut into bars. Do not
  overcook! The coconut in this recipe makes them nice and moist.
  Enjoy!! You'll get lots of compliments on this one.
 

 

 
      Title: Chicken Mole
 Categories: Chicken, Mexican, Chocolate
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8    Chicken breasts
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      1 cn Chopped green chilies sm
      1    Onion; chopped
      1    Clove garlic; minced
      8 oz Can tomato sauce
      1 c  Chicken broth
      2 ts Chile powder
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Sugar
    1/4 ts Tabasco
      2    Whole cloves
      1 oz Unsweetened baking chocolate
      2 tb Creamy peanut butter
 
  Brown chicken in oil and remove. Saute onion and garlic and Add green
  chilies. Add remaining ingredients. Stir until chocolate is melted.
  Replace chicken and cook over low heat for 30 minutes. Serve over
  cooked rice.
 

 

 
      Title: CLINTON'S CHIPS
 Categories: Cookies, Chocolate, Pres.
      Yield: 90 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Unsifted all-purpose flour
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Granulated sugar
      2    Eggs
      2 c  Old-fashioned rolled oats
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 c  Solid vegetable shortening
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Light brown sugar, packed
     12 oz Semisweet chocolate chips
 
  Preheat oven to 350F. Grease baking sheets. Combine flour, salt, and
  baking soda on waxed paper. Beat together shortening, sugars, and
  vanilla in large bowl with electric mixer until creamy. Add eggs,
  beating until light and fluffy. Gradually beat in flour mixture and
  rolled oats. Mix in chocolate chips.  Drop batter by well-rounded
  measuring teaspoonfuls onto greased baking sheets. Bake in preheated
  350F oven for 8 to 10 minutes or until golden. Cool cookies on sheets
  on wire rack 2 minutes. Remove to wire rack to cool completely.
 

 

 
      Title: BUSH'S BATCH
 Categories: Cookies, Chocolate
      Yield: 36 servings
 
      1 c  Plus 2 T all-purpose flour
      1    Egg
    1/3 c  Granulated sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Very hot water
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 c  Butter, softened
    1/2 ts Vanilla
    1/3 c  Firmly packed brown sugar
      1 c  Semisweet chocolate chips
 
  Preheat oven to 375F. Sift together flour, baking soda and salt onto
  waxed paper.  Beat butter, brown sugar, sugar and egg in large bowl
  with electric mixer until fluffy, about 3 minutes. Beat in hot water
  and vanilla. Gradually beat in flour mixture until blended and
  smooth. Stir in chocolate chips. Drop dough by well-rounded
  teaspoonfuls onto large greased baking sheet  Bake in preheated 375F
  oven for 10 minutes or until golden. Cool on sheet on wire rack 1
  minute. Remove to wire rack to cool completely. TO: AMY
  SIEMENS(MHPT78A) FROM: JOAN MADDEN(RHSV61B) SUBJECT: CHOCOLATE
  DECADENCE
 

 

 
      Title: DIVINELY DECADENT CAKE
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 10 servings
 
    1/2 c  Dark corn syrup
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine
      1 c  Semi sweet chocolate chips
    1/2 c  Granulated sugar
      3    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Flour
      1 c  Chopped nuts

----------------------CHOCOLATE GLAZE---------------------------
    2/3 c  Semi sweet chocolate chips
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      4 tb Dark corn syrup
      2 ts Whipping cream or milk
 
    x      Whole pecan or walnut halves
  
  In a large saucepan, bring corn syrup and butter to a boil, stirring.
  Remove from heat Add chocolate, stir until melted. Stir in sugar,
  eggs, and vanilla. Blend in flour and nuts. (walnuts or pecans).
  Grease and flour a 9-inch layer cake pan. Pour mixture in to the pan.
  Bake at 350 degrees for 30 minutes or until cake tester inserted in
  center comes out clean. Cool in pan 10 minutes. Remove. Cool
  completely on rack. To prepare glaze, stir together the chocolate,
  butter and syrup over low heat in a saucepan. Remove from heat Stir
  in the cream or milk. Pour glaze over the cooled cake. Let stand 1
  hour. Garnish with whole pecans or walnuts. Cut into wedges to serve.
  
  I hope you enjoy this cake. It says that it is a cross between a
  cake, a brownie, and fudge. You can also top each slice with whipped
  cream if you like. Enjoy. A chocolate lovers dream come true.
  
  posted by Sheryl Nygaard(HPPRO5B).
 

 

 
      Title: THE FIVE MINUTE KILLER FUDGE
 Categories: Candy, Chocolate
      Yield: 16 servings
 
    2/3 c  Evaporated Milk
  1 2/3 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Miniature Marshmallows
  1 1/2 c  Semi-sweet Chocolate Chips
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Nuts
 
  Read all of the instructions before starting.  Wise advice would be
  to have the ingredients in the 3rd paragraph ready to go, and also
  the pan already buttered.  Do all of this BEFORE you begin to cook.
  
  Combine Milk, Sugar, and Salt in saucepan over medium heat Bring to a
  boil and cook 4-5 minutes, stirring constantly (start timing when the
  mixture starts to "bubble" around the corners of the pan). Remove
  from heat. Add Marshmallows, Chocolate Chips, Nuts and Vanilla. Stir
  vigorously for 1 minute (or until Marshmallows are completely melted
  and blended).
  
  Pour into a buttered 8" square pan.  Cool until it doesn't fall out or
  slosh around in pan.  Eat!
  
  For the totally inept in the kitchen (or kids):
  
  Don't leave out ingredients...So what if you can't find the vanilla.
  If you leave it out, the fudge will taste about the same, but it will
  be hard enough to use as asphalt patch. You'll ruin the pan using a
  chisel to get the fudge out...Don't overcook!...Mix well! You should
  end up with a uniform texture about the same appearance as Hershey's
  Syrup... It has to cool before it turns solid...Buttering the pan
  means putting just a little butter or margarine on a clean piece of
  paper toweling and rubbing the bottom of the pan with it. Pretend
  your waxing the car.
   <original  author unknown>  formatted for MM by kathi
  
  merritt (PJXX83A)
 

 

 
      Title: Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Desserts, Chocolate
      Yield: 20 servings
 
      3 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Margarine
    2/3 c  Evaporated milk
     12 oz Semi-sweet chocolate chips
      7 oz Marshmallow creme
      1 c  Nuts
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Combine sugar, margarine, and milk in heavy 2.5qt saucepan; bring to
  full rolling bowl, stirring constantly. Continue boiling 5 min over
  medium heat or until candy thermometer reaches 234f stirring
  constantly to prevent scorching.  Remove from heat; stir in chips
  until melted. Add marshmallow creme, nuts and vanilla; beat until
  well blended. Pour into greased 9x13" pan.  Cool at room temperature,
  cut into squares. Makes approx 3lb.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Chip Cookies
 Categories: Cookies, Desserts, Chocolate
      Yield: 72 servings
 
    3/4 c  Marg; softened
    3/4 c  Shortening
  1 1/2 c  Brown sugar, lt; packed
    3/4 c  Sugar
      3    Eggs
      3 tb Corn syrup, lt
      3 tb Water
      3 ts Vanilla
  3 3/4 c  Flour; unsifted
  1 1/2 ts Baking soda
    3/4 ts Salt
      3 c  Chocolate chips; semi-sweet
 
  Cream marg, shortening, sugars, eggs,corn syrup, water and vanilla;
  beat well.  Combine flour, baking soda, salt; add to creamed mixture.
  Beat well. Stir in chips. Drop by rounded teaspoonfulls. Bake at 350
  deg. for 15 min. Allow to cool on cookie sheet for 1 min. then remove
  to cooling racks until completely cooled.
 

 

 
      Title: SUNDAE APPLES
 Categories: Desserts, Apples, Chocolate, Alcohol
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 lg Red Apples
    3/4 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Water
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      2 dr Red Food Coloring
    1/2    Lemon; sliced thin
    1/2    Orange; sliced thin
           Chocolate Liqueur Sauce
      1 pt Vanilla Ice Cream
    1/4 c  Walnuts; chopped

------------------CHOCOLATE LIQUEUR SAUCE-----------------------
      2 tb Butter or Margarine
      2 oz Unsweetened Chocolate square
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Water
      2 tb Apple Brandy -OR-
           - Creme de Cacao
 
  Preheat oven to 350. Wash & core apples, but DO NOT PEEL. Cut apple
  1/3-1/2 of the way from top to bottom in 6 or 8 sections, depending
  on size of apple. Place in shallow, ungreased baking pan. Mix sugar
  and cinnamon together in small saucepan; add water, lemon and orange
  slices, and bring to a boil. Boil 7 mins. or until syrup is
  thickened. Discard lemon and orange slices. Pour this syrup over the
  apples, and bake for 30 minutes or until fork tender. Baste apples
  frequently during baking with syrup from the pan. They should be
  nicely glazed when done. To serve warm, let apples stand 10-15
  minutes before continuing. Also good served cold. Place apple in
  glass dessert bowl, opening the apple sections so they spread (like
  flower petals) to fit the bowl. Cut sections deeper if needed to open
  it more easily. Fill center of apple with scoop of ice cream. Drizzle
  the chocolate liqueur sauce over all, and garnish with chopped
  walnuts.
  
  Serve immediately.
   CHOCOLATE LIQUEUR SAUCE: Melt butter and chocolate in saucepan over
  low heat. Add sugar and water. Cook until sauce is thickened a bit,
  stirring frequently. Add liqueur and remove from heat. Cool.
   Pat Empson 05/21 07:37 am
 

 

 
      Title: SPICED APPLESAUCE CHOCOLATE CAKE
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate, Desserts, Apples
      Yield: 16 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Flour; Unbleached, Sifted
    1/2 c  Cocoa; Baking
      2 ts Baking Soda
      1 ts Cinnamon; Ground
      1 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Vegetable Shortening
      2 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs; Large
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Applesauce
      1 c  Buttermilk
    1/3 c  ;Boiling Water

------------------CHOCOLATE FLUFF FROSTING-----------------------
      2 oz Unsweetened Chocolate
    1/2 c  Confectioners' Sugar; Sifted
    1/4 c  Butter Or Margarine;Softened
      1 ts Vanilla
      2    Egg Whites; Large
      1 c  Confectioners' Sugar; Sifted
 
  Sift together flour, baking soda, cinnamon and salt; set aside. Cream
  together the shortening and sugar in a mixing bowl until light and
  fluffy, using an electric mixer at medium speed. Add eggs, one at a
  time, beating well after each addition.  Blend in vanilla and
  applesauce. Add dry ingredients
  
  alternately with buttermilk to creamed mixture, beating well after
  each addition.  Beat in boiling water. (Batter should be thick.) Pour
  batter into greased and waxed paper-lined 13 x 9 x 2-inch baking pan.
  Bake in preheated 350 degree F. oven for 1 hour or until cake tests
  done. Cool 10 minutes in pan on rack. Remove from pan; cool on rack.
  When cake is cooled, spread with Chocolate Fluff Frosting.  Cut in
  squares. CHOCOLATE FLUFF FROSTING: Melt chocolate over
  
  hot water. Cool to room temperature. Blend together confectioners'
  sugar, butter, melted chocolate and vanilla in a bowl and beat until
  smooth. In another bowl, beat egg whites until soft peaks form, using
  an electric mixer at high speed. Gradually beat in 1 c sifted
  confectioners' sugar, 2 T at a time, until egg white mixture is
  glossy and stiff. Fold in chocolate mixture into the beaten egg
  whites.
 

 

 
      Title: S'MPRES CALE
 Categories: Cakes, Low-fat, Apples, Desserts
      Yield: 16 servings
 
    2/3 c  Cake flour
  2 1/2 c  Graham cracker crumbs
      2 ts Baking powder
      1 c  Non-fat milk
    1/2 c  Applesauce
      1 ts Vanilla
      3    Egg whites
    1/4 ts Cream of tartar
    1/2 c  Sugar
      2 c  Miniature marshmallows
    1/4 c  Mini-chocolate chips *
 
   * If you wish to reduce the fat even further, you may leave these
  out.
  
   Lightly butter 2 - 8" round springform cake pans r spray with non-
  stick cooking spray.
  
   Stir together cake flour, graham cracker crumbs and baking powder in
  medium bowl. In another bowl, combine nonfat milk, applesauce, and
  vanilla. Add to dry ingredients, stirring just until blended.
  
   Beat eggs whites until frothy.  Add cram of tartar and continue
  beating until thick and foamy. Gradually add sugar, beating until
  soft, smooth peaks form. Fold half into batter until blended. Fold in
  remaining
  
  whites until blended. Divide batter into prepared pans, spreading
  evenly. Bake at 350^ 15-20 minutes or until wood pick inserted in
  center comes out clean.
   Sprinkle marshmallows (you may use MORE than directed as they are
  fat-free) and chocolate chips over tops of cakes. Place under broiler
  to brown slightly. Let cool to warm and serve. Makes 2 cakes, about 16
  servings. Nutritional Analysis: 136 calories, 169 mg. sodium; 1
  
  mg. cholesterol; 2 grams fat; 28 grams carbohydrates; 3 grams
  protein; 0.20 gram fiber.
 

 

 
      Title: EATING WELL'S CHOCOLATE CHEESECAKE (1 of 2)
 Categories: Desserts, Cakes
      Yield: 16 servings
 
           -Dorothy Cross TMPJ72B
           -FILLING:
      2 oz Semisweet chocolate
      2 tb Instant coffee powder
      2    16-oz. containers nonfat
           -cottage cheese (4 cups)
      1 pk (8 oz) low-fat cream cheese;
           -at room temp
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      1    Large egg
      2    Large egg whites
      1 c  Low-fat sour cream
    3/4 c  Unsweetened cocoa powder
      2 tb Cornstarch
    1/8 ts Salt
      1 ts Pure vanilla extract
 
  The crust ingredients and directions are in part 2 of this set.
  
   Reformatted for Meal Master by: CYGNUS, HCPM52C & C.MINEAH
 

 

 
      Title: EATING WELL'S CHOCOLATE CHEESECAKE (2 of 2)
 Categories: Desserts, Cakes
      Yield: 16 servings
 
           -Dorothy Cross TMPJ72B
           -CRUST:
      4 oz Chocolate wafers
      1 c  Grape-Nuts cereal
      2 tb Unsweetened cocoa powder
      2 tb Sugar
      3 tb Vegetable oil,
           -preferably canola oil
 
  To make crust: Preheat oven to 325 degrees. Coat a 9-inch springform
  pan with nonstick cooking spray. Place chocolate wafers, Grape-Nuts,
  cocoa and sugar in a food processor; using an on/off motion, process
  until you have fine crumbs. Add oil and 3 Tbsp. water; process till
  the crumbs are moistened. Press the crumb mixture into the bottom and
  about 1-1/2 inches up the sides of the prepared pan. Set aside. To
  make filling: Melt chocoalte in top of a double boiler over hot, not
  boiling, water or in a microwave oven at medium (50%) power. Let cool
  slightly. Dissolve instant coffee in 1 Tbsp. boiling water and set
  aside. Place cottage cheese in a strainer lined with a double
  thickness of cheesecloth. Gather up the cheesecloth and squeeze out
  moisture from cottage cheese. Put pressed cottage-cheese solids in a
  food processor and blend until smooth. Add cream cheese, sugar, egg,
  egg whites, sour cream, cocoa, cornstarch, salt, vanilla the melted
  chocolate and the dissolved coffee; process until smooth. Pour into
  the crust-lined pan. Bake for about 1 hour, or until firm around the
  edge but still shiny and slightly soft in the center. Run a knife
  around the pan to loosen edges. Let cool in the pan on a rack. Cover
  and refrigerate until well chilled, at least 8 hours or for up to 2
  days. Remove sides. To facilitate cutting, dip a sharp knife in hot
  water and wipe dry before cutting each slice. Serves 16.
  
  COMMENTS: This cheesecake recipe is a new version of a
  
  chocoholic's dream. It contains less than a third of the fat of the
  original recipe. The careful balance of flavorings achieves a very
  rich tasting cake.
  
  266 calories per serving: 9 grams fat, 231 mg sodium, 25 mg
  cholesterol. Source: Eating Well Magazine - May/June, 1993
  
   Reformatted for Meal Master by: CYGNUS, HCPM52C & C.MINEAH
 

 

 
      Title: BIANCO MANGIARE+++FGGT98B
 Categories: Desserts, Cakes, Italian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    9-in sponge cake
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Cornstarch
      1    Quart milk
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      1 ts Cinnamon
      1 c  Chocolate sprinkles
      1 c  Chopped pecans
    1/2 c  Maraschino cherries,
           Chopped
           Chocolate sauce-optional
 
  WILSON AVENUE, ST. LOUIS TIME INCLUDES SPONGE CAKE 1. Cut cake into
  1/2 in. slices. Place 1 layer in the bottom of a 9 in. cake pan. Set
  aside. 2. Combine sugar and cornstarch in a saucepan. Set over medium
  heat. Add milk gradually and cook, stirring, until mixture comes to a
  boil and thickens. Remove from heat. Stir in vanilla and cinnamon. 3.
  Pour half the pudding over the sliced cake. Scatter over this half
  the chocolate and half the pecans. 4. Add another layer of cake, then
  rest of pudding and remaining chocolate and pecans. Top with
  cherries. Refrigerate.
   5. Serve cold on chilled plates with chocolate sauce, if desired.
 

 

 
      Title: GENOISE W/AMARETTO CAKE+++FGGT98B
 Categories: Cakes, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    2/3 c  Sugar
      7    Eggs
    3/4 c  All-purpose flour
      3    Tablespoons cornstarch
      2    Teaspoons grated lemon rind
           ***amaretto/chocolate
           Filling***
      3 c  Whipping cream
      6    Ounces semi-sweet chocolate
           Chips
    1/4 c  Amaretto
      1    9-inch genoise, split
 
  GENOISE WITH AMARETTO AND CHOCOLATE (SPONGE CAKE) In a bowl, mix eggs
  and sugar. Heat over hot water to 115 degrees, beating until doubled
  in volume. Sift flour and cornstarch together 3 times. Carefully fold
  the flour, cornstarch and lemon rind into the egg mixture. Pour into
  greased and floured 9-inch cake pans. Bake at 425 degrees until set
  and springy. Remove from pans and cool on cake racks.
  ***AMARETTO/CHOCOLATE FILLING*** Heat cream to 180 degrees. Stir in
  chocolate chips and remove from the heat. Stir to melt, then chill
  overnight. Put half of the genoise on a cake pan and sprinkle with
  half of the Amaretto. Whip the cream mixture until stiff. Spread 1/4
  of the mixture on the cake. Add top layer of cake and sprinkle with
  the remaining Amaretto. Ice top and sides of cake with chocolate
  filling, reserving some it it to pipe through a pastry bag for
  finishing touches.
 

 

 
      Title: CANNOLI (GTKG62A)
 Categories: Desserts, Italian, Pasta, Cakes, Candies
      Yield: 4 servings
 
-------------------------FOR PASTA------------------------------
  1 1/3 c  Flour
           Pinch of salt
    1/2 ts Sugar
      1 tb Grated orange or lemon rind
      1 tb Butter
           Marsala wine
      1    Egg white, beaten
           Oil; for frying

------------------------FOR FILLING-----------------------------
      1 lb Ricotta cheese
      2 tb Miniature chocolate bits, or
           Shaved semi-sweet chocolate
      1 tb Candied citron, or glaced
           Fruit; slivered
      2 tb Sugar
 
  PASTA: Combine flour, salt, sugar, citrus rind and butter and blend
  well. Add Marsala by the teaspoonful until dough is stiff. Chill for
  2 hours. Roll dough on a lightly-floured board into a large
  rectangle. Cut into 4" squares. Wrap squares around cannoli tubes so
  that 2 corners fold over and two corners point outward. Brush the
  touching corners with egg white so that they will stick together.
  Deep fry in hot oil until golden. Cool and remove from tubes. Fill.
  Makes 10 to 12 cannoli. If you don't have cannoli tubes, make 2"
  diameter tubes out of heavy-duty aluminum foil and fold dough
  accordingly. FILLING: Combine all ingredients and fill the cannoli.
 

 

 
      Title: Dad's Favorite Spice Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
      3 c  All-purpose flour
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
  2 1/2 ts Ground cinnamon; or 3
    1/2 ts Ground nutmeg
      1 c  Butter or margarine; soft
  1 1/4 c  Granulated sugar
    1/2 c  Brown sugar; packed
      3    Eggs
    3/4 c  Water
  1 1/4 c  Semi-sweet chocolate morsels
           GLAZE
    1/2 c  Milk
    3/4 c  Semi-sweet chocolate morsels
      1 tb Corn syrup
 
  In medium bowl, combine flour, baking powder, cinnamon and nutmeg. In
  large mixer bowl, cream butter, granulated sugar and brown sugar. Add
  eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Gradually beat
  in dry ingredients alternately with water; stir in 1-1/4 c morsels.
  Spoon batter into greased and floured 10" fluted tube pan. Bake in
  preheated 350~ oven for 45 to 50 minutes or until pick inserted in
  center comes out clean. Cool for 10 minutes. Remove from pan. Cool
  completely on wire rack. GLAZE- in small heavy saucepan over low
  heat, melt 3/4 c morsels, milk and corn syrup, stirring until smooth.
  Cool for 10 minutes; pour over cake. Serve with ice cream. Source:
  Times-Picayune (wrv)
 

 

 
      Title: French Chocolate Praline
 Categories: Sauces, Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
      1    Recipe of French Praline
           -Topping
      4 oz Semi-sweet chocolate
  1 1/2 c  Heavy cream
 
  Melt the chocolate in the cream, stirring until smooth. Add the
  praline at the last moment or sprinkle on top of each serving.
  Source: Times-Picayune Miriam Guidroz (wrv)
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate-Amaretto Cheesecake - GBDP78B
 Categories: Cakes, Desserts, Low-cal, Beverages
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      6    Chocolate Wafers ,crushed
  1 1/2 c  Light Cream Cheese
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  1% Low-fat Cottage Cheese
    1/4 c  Unsweetened Cocoa
    1/4 c  Aii-purpose Flour
    1/4 c  Amaretto
      1 ts Vanilla Extract
    1/4 ts Salt
      1    Egg
      2 tb Cocoa
      2 tb Semisweet Choc. Mini-morsels
           Chocolate Curls (Optional)
 
    Sprinkle chocolate wafer crumbs in bottom of a 7-inch springform
  pan. Set aside. Position knife blade in food processor bowl ;add
  cream cheese & the next 7 ingredients ,processing until smooth. Add
  Egg & process just until blended . Fold in Chocolate Morsels.
     Slowly pour mixture over crumbs in pan. Bake at 300 dg for 65 to 70
  minutes or until the cheesecake is set. Let cool in pan on a wire
  rack. Cover & chill at least 8 hrs. Remove sides of pan ,& transfer
  cheesecak to a serving platter .Garnish with chocolate curls if
  desired .(About 200 calories per serving !!!)
  
  Protein-6.8 / Fat-7.9 /Carbohydrate-27.2 /Cholesterol-.36 /Iron-0.8
  /Sodium 289 /Calcium 58 From the Light & Easy Cooking Collection-1990
  Oxmoor House Inc. A cake for Lovers !!!! John
 

 

 
      Title: Tiramisu BTVC62A
 Categories: Desserts, Italian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           Rita Taule
      6    Egg yolks
      6 tb Sugar
      6 tb Dry Marsala
      1 lb Mascarpone room temp.
    2/3 c  Chilled whipping cream
    1/3 c  Freshly brewed Espresso coff
    1/4 c  Dark rum
      3 tb Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      1    12x6x1 layer sponge cake cut
      3 tb Shaved bittersweet chocolate
      3 tb Finely ground Espresso coffe
 
  Hi Scott, hi Stacy!  Know you love desserts, so I thought I'd share
  this fabulous recipe from Bon Appetit with you. Granted, it is a bit
  time-consuming, but should keep you busy - and...it is so worth the
  wait. Whisk yolks, 6 tablespoons sugar, and Marsala in large metal
  bowl to blend. Set bowl over saucepan of simmering water (do not
  allow water to touch bottom of bowl).  Using portable electric mixer
  beat until mixture triples in volume about 5 minutes. Cover
  zabaglione and refrigerate until well chilled.  (Can be prepared 2
  days ahead). Place mascarpone in large bowl. Using electric mixer
  whip cream with 2 tablespoons sugar in medium bowl to soft peaks.
  Fold into mascarpone.  Gently fold in zabaglione. Refrigerate until
  well chilled about 3 hours. Combine espresso coffee, rum, 3
  tablespoons sugar, and vanilla in small bowl. Brush over both sides
  of cake pieces.  Place generous tablespoon mascarpone mixture in
  bottom of each of 8 balloon-shaped wineglasses. Set cake square or
  wedge into each at angle. Top with remaining mascarpone mixture.
  Combine shaved chocolate and ground coffee
         03/13/92        2:41 PM beans.  Sprinkle over
  
  desserts.  Refrigerate until chilled at least 30 minutes and up to 3
  hours. NOTE:  Instead of 12x6x1 layer sponge cake cut into eight 3
  squares you may use a 9 round sponge cake cut into 8 wedges. Take all
  the time you need to enjoy this scrumptious recipe! Rita in ever so
  sunny and beautiful Scottsdale....02/22/92
 

 

 
      Title: No-Bake Chocolate Cheesecake
 Categories: Cheesecake
      Yield: 8 servings
 
-------------------KAREN PHILLIPS CBTX40A------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Hershey's chocolate chips;
           -semi-sweet
      8 oz Cream cheese; soft
      3 oz Cream cheese; soft
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine; soft
      2 c  Frozen whipped topping;thawd
      1    8-inch crust; graham cracker
 
  In small microwave-safe bowl, place chocolate chips. Microwave at HIGH
  (100%) 1 to 1 1/2 minutes or until chips are melted and mixture is
  smooth when stirred. Set aside to cool. In large mixer bowl, beat
  cream cheese, sugar, and butter until creamy; on low speed, blend in
  melted chocolate. Fold in whipped topping until blended; spoon into
  crust. Cover; refrigerate until firm.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Dessert Fondue
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 ts Butter or margarine
      1 c  Miniature marshmallows
    1/3 c  Whipping cream
      6 oz Chocolate candy with almonds
      2 tb Milk
 
  Break candy into pieces.  Rub crock wall with butter.  Place candy,
  marshmallows and milk in crock pot.  Cover and heat, stirring every 15
  minutes, until melted and smooth.  Gradually add whipping cream.
  Cover and continue heating 30 minutes,  Serve with bite-sized pieces
  of pound cake, marshmallows or fruit.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Chip Beer and Sour Cream Cake
 Categories: Desserts, Cakes
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    3/4 c  Butter
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      3 x  Eggs
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Sour cream
      3 c  Flour-unsifted all purpose
    1/2 ts Baking powder
  1 1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/8 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Beer
           ****combine****
    3/4 c  Walnuts-chopped
    3/4 c  Chocolate chips
    1/2 c  Sugar
      4 tb Cinnamon
 
  Cream butter and sugar till fluffy.  Add eggs one at a time. Blend
  well. Add vanilla and sour cream.  Blend till creamy. Add flour,
  baking powder, baking soda, salt and beer. Blend well. In a small
  bowl, combine nuts, chips, sugar and cinnamon.  Pour flour  mixture
  into greased and floured tube pan.  You may alternate flour mixture
  then nut and chip mixture. Or you may combine nuts and chip mixture
  to flour mixture and pour all into pan.  I do the latter.  Bake at
  350~ 50-60 minutes or till inserted knife comes out clean. Leave cake
  in pan about 10 minutes then empty on to rack to cool. *I dust chips
  with flour to prevent sticking. Source: Lynne Green-UAL
 

 

 
      Title: Fudge Frosting
 Categories: Frostings
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3    Unsweetened Chocolate; squa
  1 1/2 c  Milk
      3 c  Sugar
      1 ds Salt
      3 tb Light corn syrup
      3 tb Butter
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
 
  Add chocolate to milk and place over low flame. Cook until mixture is
  smooth and blended, stirring constantly. Add sugar, salt, and corn
  syrup; stir until sugar is dissolved and mixture boils. Continue
  boiling, without stirring, until a small amount of mixture forms a
  very soft ball in cold water  ( 232 degrees F.). Remove from fire.
  Add butter and va- nilla. Cool.to lukewarm (110 degrees F.). Beat
  until of right consistency to spread.  If necessary, place over hot
  water to keep soft while spreading. Makes enough frosting to cover
  tops and sides of two 9-inch layers, or top and sides of 13x9x2-inch
  cake.
 

 

 
      Title: MARTHA WASHINGTON'S DEVIL'S FOOD
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 oz Unsweetened Chocolate
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Buttermilk; or sour milk
    1/2 c  Cake Flour; sifted
  1 1/2 ts Baking Powder
    3/4 ts Soda
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Butter; or sbortening
    3/4 c  Sugar
      3    Eggs; well beaten
      1 c  Buttermilk; or sour milk
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Melt chocolate over boiling water; add 1 cup sugar and 1/2 cup
  butterrmilk and stir over boiling water until sugar is dissolved.
  Cool. Sift flour once, measure, add baking powder, soda, and salt and
  sift together three times.  Cream butter thoroughly  add 3/4 cup
  sugar gradually, and cream together until light and fluffy. Add eggs
  and beat well. Add about 1/4 of flour mixture, mix thoroughly; add
  chocolate mixture and blend. Add remaining flour, altenately with
  buttermilk, a small Amount at a time; beat very thoroughly after each
  addition. Add vanilla. Bske in greased 15x9x2- inch pan, in a
  moderate oven ( 35O degrees F.) 30 minutes, or until cake is done.
  When cold, trim edges, cut in half crosswise, and put together as a
  two-layer cake, matching  edges carefully. Spread tops and sides with
  Martha Washington's Fudge Frosting (See recipe). Or add
    chopped nut meats to part of frosting and use as
    filling.
 

 

 
      Title: MARTHA WASHINGTON'S FUDGE FROSTING
 Categories: Frostings, Cakes
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Water
      1 tb Light corn syrup
      1 ds Salt
      4 oz Unsweetened Chocolate
      4 tb Butter
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Combine sugar, water, corn syrup, and  salt  in  small saucepan. Bring
  quickly to a boil, stirring only until sugar is dissolved. Then boil,
  without  stirring, until mixture forms a very soft ball in cold water
  (232 degrees F.). Cool to lukewarm ( 110 degrees F. ). Melt chocolate
  in medium saucepan over boiling water. Add butter and vanilla. Remove
  from boiling water.
   Add syrup gradually, stirring constantly. Continue stirring until
  smooth and thickened. Place again over boiling water and stir until
  frostin0g is softened and of right consistency to spread. Remove from
  boiling water and spread on cake. If necessary, place over hot water
  to keep soft while spreading. Makes enough frosting to cover tops and
  sides of two 7 1/2x9-inch layers.
 

 

 
      Title: DEVILS FOOD CAKE (MICROWAVE)
 Categories: Desserts, Cakes, Mw
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 c  All purpose flour
    2/3 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      1 oz Pre-melted chocolate
    1/3 c  Shortening
    1/3 c  Milk
      2    Eggs
 
    Makes one layer cake.
    Place all ingredients except eggs in mixing bowl. Blend at low
  speed, then beat at medium speed 1 minute. Add eggs and beat 1
  minute. If cake is to be removed before icing, place a few dabs of
  shortening in bottom of 9 inch glass baking dish, then fit a circle
  of wax paper over the shortening. If cake is to be iced in the baking
  dish, simply pour batter in evenly. Microwave 1 layer at 50 percent
  power for 5 to 6 minutes, rotating 1/4 turn every 3 minutes.
  Increase power to High, microwave 2 to 5 minutes or until done. Let
  stand directly on counter top 5 to 10 minutes.
   *If solid chocolate is used, melt in glass measuring cup at 50
  percent power for 2 to 4 minutes per square. To soften pre-melted
  chocolate in the packets, microwave in envelope 10 seconds on High.
   VARIATIONS:
    1.  Chocolate Mint Cakes:  Substitute Peppermint flavoring for
  vanilla.
    2.  Chocolate Peanut Cake:  Add 2 tbsp. (1/4 cup) peanut butter and
  one more tbsp. milk before mixing.
    3.  Chocolate Cherry Cake:  Add 2 tbsp. (1/4 cup) maraschino cherry
  juice for milk and 1/4 cup of maraschino cherries before mixing.
 

 

 
      Title: TORTOISES
 Categories: Cookies, Chocolate
      Yield: 30 servings
 
    1/2 c  Brown sugar;packed
    1/2 c  Margarine; or butter/soft
      2 tb Water
      1 ts Vanilla
  1 1/2 c  Flour
    1/8 ts Salt
     90    Pecan halves
      8    Caramels; cut in 4ths

----------------------CHOCOLATE GLAZE---------------------------

--------------------------FOLLOWS-------------------------------
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Mix sugar, margarine, and vanilla. stir
  in flour and salt until dough just holds together. If dough is too
  dry, stir in 1 to 2 tablespoons water. For each cookie, group 3 pecan
  halves on an ungreased cookie sheet, laying them at angles to each
  other. Take dough by teaspoonsful and shape around caramel piece;
  press firmly onto the center oeach group of nuts. Bake until set but
  not brown, 12 to 15 minutes. Cool.Dip tops of cookies into Chocolate
  Glaze. Yields about 30 cookies. Chocolate Glaze: Beat 1 cup powdered
  sugar, 1 teaspoon water, 1 ounce (1 square) unsweetened chocolate,
  melted, and 1 teaspoon vanilla until smooth.If necessary, stir in
  water, 1 teaspoon at a time until glaze is of dipping consistency.
  Thesecookies should be made at least 2 weeks before being eaten; they
  will keep 4 to 6 weeks after that.
 

 

 
      Title: MEXICAN CHOCOLATE PIE
 Categories: Ethnic, Desserts, Pies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk Unflavored gelatine
    1/2 c  Water
      4    Eggs
      3    Semisweet chocolate (1oz sq)
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Coffee liqueur
    1/4 c  Almonds; slivered
      1 ts Margarine
  1 1/2 c  Heavy cream
      1    Pie shell; baked
 
    DIRECTIONS -  FILLING, SPRINKLE GELATINE OVER 1/2 C COLD WATER IN
  MEASURING CUP; LET   SOFTEN ABOUT 5 MIN. SEPARATE EGGS, PLACING TWO
  WHITES (refrigerate
    remain- ing whits) IN SMALL BOWL OF ELETRIC MIXER, YOLKS IN TOP OF
  DOUBLE BOILER. LET EGG WHITES WARM TO ROOM TEMP. BEAT EGG YOLKS
  SLIGHTLY WITH WOODEN SPOON STIR IN GELATINE MIXTURE,CHOCO AND 2 T
  SUGAR, COOK OVER HOT,NOT BOILING, WATER, STIRRING, UNTIL CHOCO IS
  MELTED AND GELATINE IS DISSOLVED(10 MIN). REMOVE FROM HEAT. STIR IN
  COFFEE-FLAVORED LIQUEUR. TURN CHOCO MIX. INTO A MEDIUM LARGE BOWL;
  PLACE IN LARGE BOWL OF ICE WATER. STIR OCC. UNTIL COOL + CONSISTENCY
  OF UNBEATEN EGG WHITE(15 MIN) TOAST ALMONDS, COOL. IN CHILLED BOWL,
  WHIP CRM UNTIL STIFF,REFRIG. BEAT EGG WHITE (SOFT PEAKS) GRADUALLY
  BEAT IN REMAINING 2 T SUGAR, BEATING UNTIL STIFF PEAKS. WITH WIRE
  WHISK, FOLD EGG WHITES AND 1 1/2 C SHIPPED CREAM INTO CHOCO MIX. TURN
   INTO PIE SHELL. CHILL AT LEAST 3 HRS.(OVERNIGHT) CHOP ALMONDS.
  GARNISH
    WITH NUTS, WHIPPED CREAM. MAKES 10-12 SERVINGS.
 

 

 
      Title: NESTLE'S TOLL HOUSE CHOCOLATE CHIP COOLIES
 Categories: Cookies, Desserts
      Yield: 7 servings
 
  4 1/2 c  Flour (all purpose)
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      2 ts Baking soda
  1 1/2 c  Brown sugar (firmly packed)
      2 ts Salt
      2 ts Vanill extract
      1 c  Butter (2 sticks softened)
      1 c  Shortening
      4    Eggs
      1 pk Nestle chocolate chips 12 oz
 
  Preheat oven to 375 degrees.  In small bowl combine flour,baking soda
  and salt.  In large bowl combine butter,sugar,brown sugar and vanilla
  extract . Beat in eggs. Gradually add flour mixture. Stir in
  chocolate chips Semi-sweet.  Drop by teaspoon onto ungreased cookie
  sheets. Bake at 375 degrees for 10 to 14 min..
   Makes about 5 dozen 2 1/4 cookies.
 

 

 
      Title: TOLL HOUSE CHOCO-OAT RAGE
 Categories: Desserts, Party, Cookies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Margarine;softened (2 stick)
  1 1/3 c  Oats; quick or old fashioned
    1/2 c  Flour
      1 c  Brown sugar;light
    1/2 c  Walnuts; chopped (optional)
      2    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla
     12 oz Chocolate chips
 
    DIRECTIONS ~------------------------------------------------------
  ~--- IN LARGE MIXER BOWL, COMBINE MARGARINE, OATS, FLOUR, BROWN
  SUGAR, WALNUTS, EGGS, AND VANILLA. BEAT 3 MINUTES AT MEDIUM SPEED OR
  UNTIL MIXTURE IS LIGHT AND CREAMY. STIR IN 1 C CHIPS. SPREAD BATTER
  IN 8 IN SQUARE MICROWAVE SAFE BAKING DISH; COVER DISH WITH WAXED
  PAPER. COOK ON HIGH 4 MINUTES; ROTATE DISH 1/4 TURN. COOK ON HIGH
  POWER 4-5 MINUTES OR UNTIL TOP OF CAKE APPEARS DRY AND BOTTOM OF CAKE
  IS AN EVEN
    COLOR.  SPRINKLE REMAINING 1 CUP CHIPS OVER TOP OF WARM CAKE. LET
  SAND 10 MINUTES, THEN SPREAD CHOCOLATE EVENLY OVER CAKE. COOL
  DIRECTLY ON
    COUNTER TOP. CUT N SERVING PIECES . MAKES 8-10
 

 

 
      Title: Very Rich, Very Thin Chocolate Lace Cookies
 Categories: Cookies, Holiday, Party
      Yield: 36 servings
 
    1/4 lb Butter-1 stick
      2    Chocolate-unsweetened
           Egg-slightly beaten
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Vanilla
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 c  Flour
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
 
  Melt the butter and chocolate in the top of a double boiler. Combine
  with egg and rest of ingredients.
   Drop by scant teaspoonfuls on greased cookie sheets. The finished
  cookies will be 3 to 4 inches in diameter so space them accordingly.
  Bake in preheated oven of 325~ for about 12 minutes. Watch carefully
  to prevent burning.  When nearly cool, remove from the cookie sheet
  with spatuala. (I use the metal type.Hint-press under the cookie with
  pressure against the sheet and they remove easily without crumbling)
  Place on racks to cool completely. Source: Woman's Industrial Union
  in Boston
 

 

 
      Title: WEIGHT WATCHER BROWNIES
 Categories: Low-cal, Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2    Egg
      1 pk Chocolate alba
    1/2 c  Applesauce
      2 tb Cocoa
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Baking soda
      2 pk Sweet & low
 
  Put all ingredientsin a blender and mix well.  Spray 2 mini-loaf pans
  with Pam and pour in batter.  Bake at 350 for 18 min. Don't over
  bake. Should be chewy.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Pots De Creme ( Mw )
 Categories: Microwave, Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Light Cream
      1 oz German Cooking Chocolate *
    3/4 ts Sugar
           Dash Salt
      1    Beaten Egg Yolk
    1/8 ts Vanilla
           Whipped Cream (Opt.)
 
  *    German Chocolate should be corasely chopped.
  
  In a small nonmetal bowl stir together light cream, chopped chocolate,
  sugar and salt.  Micro-cook, uncovered, on 100% power about 1 minute
  or till chocolate is melted, stirring after 30 seconds.  Stir about
  HALF of the hot mixture into the beaten egg yolk.  Return all to the
  bowl, mixing well.  Micro-cook, uncovered, on 50% power for 1 to 2
  minutes or till thickened, stirring every 15 seconds.  Stir in
  vanilla.  Pour into pot de creme cup or 6 ounce custard cup.  Cover
  and chill for several hours or till firm.  Garnish with whipped
  cream, if desired.
  
  NOTE: SELECTING THE RIGHT CHOCOLATE: You'll find three basic types of
  chocolate in the baking supplies department of most supermarkets--
  semisweet chocolate, unsweetened chocolate, and sweet chocolate. The
  semisweet chocolate is made from chocolate that is just slight
  sweetened with sugar. Unsweetened chocolate is the original baking or
  cooking chocolate and has no added flavorings or sugar. And sweet
  chocolate, such as the German cooking chocolate used in the Chocolate
  Pots de Creme recipe, is chocolate mixed with sugar and sometimes
  additional cocoa butter or flavorings.
 

 

 
      Title: Banana Split Sundaes ( Mw )
 Categories: Microwave, Desserts, Peanuts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 oz Square Semisweet Chocolate
      2 tb Light Corn Syrup
      2 tb Sweetened Condensed Milk
    1/8 ts Vanilla
           Ice Cream
      1 tb Unsalted, Roasted Peanuts
      1    Small Banana, Quartered
 
  Place chocolate in a 2 cup measure.  Micro-cook, uncovered, on 100%
  power for 1 1/2 to 2 minutes or till melted, stirring once.  Stir in
  corn syrup and sweetened condensed milk.  Micro-cook, uncovered, on
  100% power for 30 to 45 seconds or till heated through.  Stir in
  vanilla.  Serve warm atop ice cream.  Sprinkle with peanuts.  Arrange
  quartered banana around ice cream.
 

 

 
      Title: Disappearing Marshmallow Brownies
 Categories: Chocolate, Brownies, Cookies, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine
    3/4 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Baking powder
      1 c  Chocolate chips
      1    Egg
    1/4 ts Salt
     13 c  Brown sugar, packed
      1 c  Mini marshamallows
    1/4 c  Chopped nuts
 
  Melt butterscotch chips and butter or margarine together over low
  heat, stirring constantly. Cool to lukewarm. Beat in egg. Combine dry
  ingredients including sugar, and stir into melted mixture. Fold in
  remaining stuff, sti just enough to combine (about 5 strokes). Spread
  in greased 9x9 inch pan and bake at 350 for 20-25 minutes.Do not
  overbake; center will be jiggly but firms up as it cools. "Happiness
  is like jam; you can't spread even a little without getting some of
  it on yourself."
 

 

 
      Title: BOSTON CREAM PIE
 Categories: Pies, Desserts
      Yield: 14 servings
 
           -----------cake l-----------
      1 c  Sugar
    2/3 c  Milk
  1 3/4 c  All-purpose flour
           -------vanilla egg c--------
    1/3 c  Cornstarch
  2 1/2 c  Milk
           --------chocolate g---------
      1 tb Butter
    1/4 c  Milk
    1/4 c  Butter, softened
      3    Large eggs
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 ts Baking powder
    2/3 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
      4    Large egg yolks,lightly beat
      3    1 oz. chocolate squares
    1/3 c  Confectioners' sugar
 
  Prepare cake layers: Heat oven to 350 degrees.Grease and flour two 9"
  round cake pans.In large bowl with electric mixer at medium speed,
  beat 1/4 cup butter,1 cup sugar,eggs,2/3 cup milk,1 tsp. vanilla and
  baking powder about 4 minutes until thoroughly blended and smooth.
  Spoon batter into prepared pans;bake 30 minutes until wooden pick
  inserted in center of each layer comes out clean.Remove layers to
  wire racks to cool completely. Prepare egg custard: In 2 qt.
  saucepan,stir 2/3 cup sugar,cornstarch and salt until thoroughly
  mixed;slowly stir in 2 1/2 cups milk until smooth.Bring to boil over
  medium heat,stirring constantly;cook 1 minute until mixture boils
  rapidly and thickens.Remove from heat; very slowly pour lightly
  beaten egg yolks into hot mixture,stirring rapidly and constantly to
  blend and keep smooth.Return mixture to low heat;cook 1 minute
  longer.Do not allow to boil.Remove from heat;stir in 1 tbsp.
  vanilla.Cool completely,stirring frequently. Prepare chocolate glaze:
  In small heavy saucepan over very low heat, melt chocolate and 1
  tbsp. butter,stirring frequently until blended and smooth.Remove from
  heat;stir in confectioners sugar and 1/4 cup milk until blended and
  smooth.Keep warm,covered. To assemble: Using sharp serrated
  knife,carefully cut cooled layers in half horizontally.Place one
  layer,cut side up,on serving platter; spread with 1/3 cooled
  custard.Repeat with remaining cake layers and custard,ending with
  cake layer,cut side down.Spoon warm glaze over top of cake,letting
  mixture drip down sides.Makes 12 to 16 servings.
 

 

 
      Title: CHOCOLATE CRUMB PIE SHELL
 Categories: Pies, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Chocolate cookie crumbs
      1 tb Granulated sugar
    1/4 c  Butter, softened
 
  Mix ingredients until thoroughly blended.Press into a 9" pie pan.Bake
  @ 375 degrees for 8 minutes.
 

 

 
      Title: COUNTY FAIR BANANA CREAM PIE
 Categories: Pies, Desserts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           -----------nut c------------
      1 c  Butter, softened
      1    Egg,beaten
           --------chocolate l---------
      1    Stick unsalted butter
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Milk
      1 c  Sugar
      3 tb Unsalted butter
      2    Bananas
      2 c  Heavy cream
      2 c  Pecans
      3 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Chocolate chips
      1 tb Light corn syrup
           ----------banana c----------
      4    Egg yolks
      5 tb Flour
      1 tb Rum or 1 tsp. vanilla
           Juice of 1/2 lemon
           Chopped pecans,optional
 
  For the crust: Chop pecans very fine,preferably in a food processor
  fitted with a metal blade.Place in bowl with other crust ingredients
  and mix until well blended.Divide in half and press into the bottom
  of 2 pie pans.Chill 30 minutes. Bake the pie crusts for 25 minutes @
  350 degrees.Cool completely. For chocolate layer:Melt chocolate with
  butter and corn syrup in the top of a double boiler set over hot,not
  boiling water.Stir frequently. Remove from heat and cool,then stir in
  vanilla.Divide between cooked pie crusts and spread evenly. For
  Filling:Heat milk in a medium size saucepan over medium heat to
  scald.Beat the egg yolks and gradually add sugar.Then beat in flour.
  Gradually stir in hot milk.Transfer to medium saucepan and
  cook,stirring constantly over medium high heat(use a whisk).The
  mixture will lump as it begins to thicken.Bring the mixture to a boil
  and boil 1 minute,stirring constantly.Remove from the pan from heat
  and continue to stir until the mixture is smooth.Then,beat in butter
  and optional rum.Cool to room temperature. Peel the bananas,slice
  very thin and toss with lemon juice.Whip 1 cup of the cream until it
  is firm but not stiff.Mix about 1/4 of the cream into the cooled egg
  mixture to lighten it,then fold the remaining cream and bananas into
  egg mixture.Fill the pastry shells with banana cream and smooth to
  even.Beat remaining cream until stiff. Spoon around edge of the pies
  and sprinkle with chopped pecans,if desired.Makes 2 pies.
 

 

 
      Title: CRUMB PIE SHELL
 Categories: Pies, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Chocolate cookie crumbs
      1 tb Granulated sugar
    1/4 c  Butter, softened
 
  Mix ingredients until thoroughly blended.Press into a 9" pie pan.Bake
  @ 375 degrees for 8 minutes.
 

 

 
      Title: FROSTY PUMPKIN ICE CREAM PIE
 Categories: Pies, Desserts
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 qt Vanilla ice cream
    1/4 c  Granulated sugar
      1    9" baked graham crust
           Walnut chocolate candies,opt
      1 c  Canned pumpkin
      1 ts Pumpkin pie spice
      1 c  Heavy cream,stiffly beaten
 
  In large bowl,working quickly,combine ice cream,pumpkin,sugar and
  pumpkin pie spice;stir gently but thoroughly to blend. Spread ice
  cream mixture evenly in prepared crust;freeze until firm,at least 1
  hour or overnight.To serve:Swirl whipped cream decoratively around
  edge of pie;top with walnut shaped chocolate candies,if desired.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Swirl Cheesecake
 Categories: Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 c  Semi-sweet chocolate ships
  1 1/4 c  Graham-cracker crumbs
    1/4 c  Butter, melted
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla extract
    1/2 c  Sugar
      2 tb Sugar
      2 pk Cream cheese, soft 8 oz size
    1/2 c  Sour cream
      4    Eggs
 
  1. Preheat oven to 325 degrees 2. Combine over hot (not boiling)
  water, chocolate chips and 1/2 cup
     sugar; heat until chips melt and mixture is smooth. Remove from
  heat;
     set aside. 3. In small bowl, combine graham-cracker crumbs, 2
  tablespoons sugar and
     melted butter; mix well. Pat firmly into 9" springform pan,
  covering
     bottom and 1//2 inch up sides; set aside. 4. In large bowl, beat
  cream cheese until light and creamy. Gradually beat
     in 3/4 cup sugar. Mix sour cream and vanilla extract. Add egge,
  one at
     a time, beating well after each addition. Divide batter in half.
  Stir
     melted chocolate mixture into first half. Pour into crumb-lined
  pan;
     cover with plain batter. With knife, swirl plain batter with
  chocolate
     batter to marbleize. 5. Bake for 50 minutes or until only 2-3 inch
  circle in center will shake.
     Cool at room temperatute; refrigerate.
 

 

 
      Title: Five Minute Fudge
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      1 c  Condensed milk-Eagle 14 oz
           Salt-dash
      2 c  Nuts-chopped
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 pk Chocolate chips 12 oz *
 
  * Semi-sweet or milk chocolate 1. Heat the above in a saucepan (except
  nuts) until the chips are melted.
     Add nuts; stir. Spread in an 8" square pan sprayed with Pam. 2.
  Cool at room temperature for 30 minutes, then refrigerate. Ready to
  cut
     in 2 hours.
 

 

 
      Title: Krispie Cookies by Frances
 Categories: Cookies
      Yield: 12 servings
 
    1/2 c  Shortening (can)
      1 c  Brown Sugar
      2    Eggs
      2 c  All-Purpose Flour
      1 ts Cream of Tartar
      4 c  Rice Krispies
           Chocolate chips (if desired)
    1/2 c  Butter
      1 c  White Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Baking Soda
      1 ts Salt
           Nuts (if desired)
 
  Cream shortening, margarine with sugars. Add eggs and vanilla. Sift
  dry ingredients together, add to the above, then add cereal and blend
  in gently. Drop on un-greased cookie sheet, by teaspoon. Bake at 350
  degrees for 12 to 15 minutes
 

 

 
      Title: Secret Kiss Cookies
 Categories: Cookies
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 c  Butter
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Walnuts-chopped fine
      1 c  Powdered Sugar
      2 c  Sugar
      2 c  Flour
      1 pk Chocolate Kisses or Carob St
 
  1. Beat butter, sugar and vanilla at medium speed until light and
  fluffy.
     Add flour and nuts on low speed until well-blended. Chill dough 2
     hours. 2. For each cookie, use about 1 tablespoon of dough to
  encase one candy
     kiss completely. Place on un-grease cookie sheet. 3. Bake at 350
  degrees until set but not brown, about 8-10 minutes. 4. Remove and
  roll in powdered sugar. Makes about 36 cookies.
 

 

 
      Title: Pour la France's Fudge Caramel Cake - Express
 Categories: Cakes, Texas, Desserts, Sauces
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      2    9-inch layers of choc. Cake
      1    Fudge Icing (Recipe)
      1    Caramel Sauce (Recipe)
  1 1/2 c  Cashews, roasted, unsalted
      2 c  Heavy Cream
  2 1/2 lb Semisweet Chocolate
    1/3 c  Light Corn Syrup
      1 c  Brown Sugar, firmly packed
      2 ts Butter
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Heavy Cream
 
  FOR CAKE:
     Slice round cake layers horizontally in half to make 4 round cake
  layers.  Place 1 layer on plate and top with Fudge Icing, Caramel
  Sauce and Cashews.
   Repeat with next 2 cake layers.  Place final cake layer on top,
  frost top and sides of cake with Fudge Icing and cover sides of cake
  with chopped cashews. FUDGE ICING: Bring cream to boil. Stir in
  chocolate until melted and smooth. This will be very soft but will
  harden when cooled. Refrigerate until workable consistency.
         NOTE: The time it takes to get to a workable consistency
  depends on the weather.  This is much like making fudge candy. The
  author, (Arlene Lightsey), made this sauce on a cool, clear day and
  had no problem. CARAMEL SAUCE: Bring first 4 ingredients to boil and
  reduce to thick syrup. Very carefully, (because it will splatter),
  add cream. Refrigerate until cool. Recipe from Pastry Chef Jenny
  Mattingsley, of Pour la France, 7959 Broadway, San Antonio,
  Texas......
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Zucchini Nut Bread
 Categories: Breads, Desserts, Cakes, Fontish
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 c  Salad Oil
      3    Eggs
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Baking Powder
      1 ts Baking Soda
      2 oz Baking Chocolate, Melted
      2 c  Grated, peeled Zucchini
      1 c  Chopped Nuts
      2 c  Sugar
      3 c  Flour
      1 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Choc Chips
 
  chocolate into egg mixture along with zucchini and vanilla. Sift
  flour with salt, cinnamon, baking powder and baking soda. With a
  large spoon, stir into zucchini mixture, along with nuts and chips.
  Mix thoroughly. Spoon into 2 well-greased 9" x 5" pans.
   Bake at 350F for 1 hr. MY NOTE:  Excellent Quickbread. Very Moist and
  sweet. is recipe comes out of Country Cook'n, compiled by the St Rose
  Parishioners  Fredonia, Wis and St Mary's Parishioners of Little
  Kohler, Wis.  This one  the recipe of Mary Niedermeyer.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Mousse Flan
 Categories: Desserts, Company
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Flour; all purpose
           Pastry:
      2 tb Sugar; icing
      1 oz Chocolate; melted (1 square
    1/2 c  Butter; softened
           Mousse filling:
    1/3 c  Whipping cream
      5 oz Chocolate; 5 squares
      2 tb Butter
      2    Eggs
    1/4 c  Sugar
           Garnish:
      3 oz Chocolate; 3 squares
           Sugar; icing
 
    You need a 9 1/2" flan pan with a removable bottom to make this
  spectacular looking dessert.
    PASTRY: Combine flour, icing sugar and 1 melted square chocolate.
  Cut in 1/2 cup softened butter (with pastry blender or in food
  processor) till mixture resembles coarse crumbs, form into ball with
  hands. Press into bottom and sides of flan ring pan with removable
  bottom that has been greased. Chill 1 hour. Bake at 425F for 10
  minutes; cool.
    MOUSSE FILLING: Bring 1/2 cup whipping cream to a boil, Add 5
  sqaures chocolate and 2 tbsp butter, stir until melted. Blend in 2
  eggs yolks well, remove from heat. Beat egg whites till frothy,
  gradually add 1/4 cup sugar, beating till stiff peaks form. Gently
  fold into chocolate mixture; pour into pastry crust, chill 10 minutes.
    GARNISH: Shortly before serving, sprinkle 3 squares (coarsely
  grated- use a vegetable peeler to make curls) over mousse. Lay 3
  strips of wax paper across flan. Sift icing sugar over flan; remove
  wax paper.
   NB: Don't make or serve this on a hot day; it will melt.
    from Baker's Chocolate
 

 

 
      Title: Easy Double Chocolate Banana Snack Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Dad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Flour; all purpose
      1 c  Sugar
      2 tb Cocoa; unsweetened
      1 ts Baking soda
    3/4 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Banana; mashed ripe
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Vanilla
    3/4 c  Chocolate chips; semisweet
 
  Fat grams    per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: :15 Preheat
  oven to 350F. Mix together flour, sugar, cocoa, baking soda and salt.
  Make well in centre of ingredients.
   Add milk, banana, butter, lemon juice and vanilla.
   Beat with fork till well blended, about 2 minutes. Stir in chocolate
  chips. Pour into greased 9" square cake pan.
   Bake in 350F oven for 45-50 minutes or till done. Cool completely. To
  serve, sprinkle with icing sugar.
  
  from the Cooking with Milk calendar
 

 

 
      Title: Stained Glass Candies
 Categories: Candy, Christmas, Heritage
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 oz Chocolate; semisweet (4 squ
      1 c  Sugar; icing
      1    Egg; beaten
      3 c  Marshmallows; coloured mini
    1/2 c  Walnuts
      2 ts Butter
 
     Melt chocolate, add sugar and egg, pour over nuts and
  marshmallows. Form into rolls, wrap in wax paper and refrigerate.
  When cool, slice into round candies.
     one of mom's Christmas recipes, originally from a neighbour
 

 

 
      Title: CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING
 Categories: Desserts, Personal
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 oz Unsweetened chocolate
           - cut into small pieces
      2 c  Half and half
      2 c  Soft white bread crumbs
           - (loosely packed)
      2    Jumbo eggs
      1 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
      1 pn Salt
      1 c  Heavy cream; whipped
 
  HEAT THE CHOCOLATE AND half and half in a large saucepan over low
  heat for 12-15 minutes, stirring frequently until chocolate is
  completely melted. Remove pan from the heat, stir in the crumbs and
  let stand for one hour. Preheat oven to 350F. Beat the eggs until
  frothy, blend in the sugar, vanilla and salt, then mix into the
  chocolate. Pour the pudding into a buttered 1 1/2-quart casserole,
  set it in a shallow baking pan and pour enough hot water into the pan
  to come halfway up the sides of the casserole. Bake the pudding
  uncovered for 50 to 60 minutes until the pudding is set like custard.
  To test it, insert a toothpick in the center. If it comes out clean,
  pudding is done. Serve the pudding warm, topped with dollops of
  whipped cream.
  
  JEAN ANDERSON
  
  PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 

 

 
      Title: DEVIL'S FOOD WITH FUDGE FROSTING
 Categories: Desserts, Personal
      Yield: 8 servings
 
----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
  1 3/4 c  Sifted cake flour
    1/2 c  Cocoa powder (not a mix)
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Unsalted butter
  1 1/4 c  Granulated sugar
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
      2 lg Eggs
      1 c  Boiling water

--------------------------FROSTING-------------------------------
    1/4 c  Unsalted butter
      2 c  Confectioners' sugar
      2 oz Unsweetened chocolate
           - melted
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
      2 tb Half-and-half OR milk OR
           - evaporated milk
 
  PREHEAT THE OVEN TO 350F. Grease 2 8-inch layer cake pans well, then
  dust them generously with cocoa. (This gives the cake layers a rich
  brown finish). Sift the flour, cocoa, baking soda and salt onto a
  piece of waxed paper and set it aside. Cream the butter until it is
  fluffy, add the sugar and vanilla, and continue beating until the
  batter is silvery and light. Beat the eggs in one by one, then add
  the sifted dry ingredients, alternately with the boiling water,
  beginning and ending with the dry ingredients and beating well after
  each addition. Divide the batter equally between the two pans,
  smoothing the tops. Bake the layers uncovered for 30 to 35 minutes,
  or until the layers feel spongy to the touch and begin to pull away
  from the sides of the pans. Cool the layers upright in their pans on
  wire racks for 10 minutes, then carefully loosen them around the
  edges with a spatula and turn them onto wire racks. Cool them
  completely. FOR THE FROSTING: Cream the butter until it is light,
  then add the confectioners' sugar gradually, beating all the while.
  Beat in the melted chocolate and vanilla, then add just enough cream
  to make the frosting a good consistency for spreading. Sandwich the
  two cake layers together with frosting, then frost the top and sides
  of the cake. Swirl the frosting into peaks and valleys.
  
  JEAN ANDERSON
  
  PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 

 

 
      Title: HOT FUDGE SAUCE
 Categories: Spices, Desserts, Personal
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      2 tb Flour
    3/4 c  Cold water *
           - *for a richer sauce,
           - use evaporated milk
      3 oz Unsweetened chocolate
      3 tb Butter or margarine
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  MIX THE SUGAR AND FLOUR IN A heavy saucepan, blend in the water and
  heat, stirring constantly, over moderate heat until boiling and
  thickened. Reduce the heat to low, add the chocolate and cook and
  stir until the chocolate melts. Beat in the butter and vanilla. Cool
  slightly, beating now and then. Serve warm. And here's something else
  you might try. Simply begin your favorite fudge recipe, but cook the
  syrup only to about 220F or 225F. Take it off the heat, cool maybe 10
  minutes, then drop in the butter, add the vanilla and heat until
  satiny. You couldn't get a more authentic hot fudge sauce than this!
  
  Makes 1 1/4 Cups
  
  "New Doubleday Cookbook," co-authored by Elaine Hanna and Jean
  Anderson (Doubleday, 1985).
  
  JEAN ANDERSON
  
  PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 

 

 
      Title: ALL-AMERICAN CHOCOLATE CAKE
 Categories: Desserts, Personal
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      4 oz Unsweetened chocolate
      1 c  Shortening or 1/2 lb butter
      2 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Cake flour
      2 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Milk
      4    Eggs
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. In a small, heavy-bottomed pan, melt chocolate
  and shortening, stirring over low heat until smooth and melted.
  Remove from heat and stir in vanilla. In large bowl, combine flour,
  sugar, baking powder, baking soda and salt. Add chocolate mixture,
  milk and eggs, beating until smooth. Spread mixture in two greased
  and floured 9-inch round cake pans. Bake for 30-to-35 minutes or
  until toothpick inserted in center of cake comes out clean. Cool in
  pans 5 minutes before turning out onto wire rack.
  
  MARION CUNNINGHAM
  
  PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 

 

 
      Title: GRASSHOPPER CHEESE CAKE
 Categories: Desserts, Liquor, Personal
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    9-in springform pan

----------------CHOCOLATE COOKIE CRUMB CRUST---------------------
  1 1/2 c  Chocolate cookie crumbs
    1/4 c  Melted butter
    1/4 ts Cinnamon

-----------------------CHEESE FILLING----------------------------
      1 lb Cream cheese
           -at room temperature
      1 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Green creme de menthe
      3 tb Creme de cacao
      2 tb Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      6    Eggs; separated
      1 c  Sour cream
      2 oz Semisweet chocolate
           - grated to garnish
           -  the top of the cake
 
  CHOCOLATE COOKIE CRUMB CRUST: Combine chocolate cookie crumbs with
  melted butter and cinnamon. Toss and mix well. Press into the bottom
  and partially up the sides of the springform pan. Refrigerate and,
  while making the filling, preheat the oven to 325F.
  
  CHEESE FILLING: Put the cream cheese in a mixing bowl and beat until
  light and soft. Add 3/4 cup of the sugar and mix well. Stir in the
  creme de menthe and the creme de cacao, flour and salt. Beat until
  the mixture is blended well. Add the egg yolks and sour cream, and
  beat until the batter is smooth and blended. Combine the egg whites
  and 1/4 cup remaining sugar and beat until the whites stand in soft
  peaks. Fold the beaten whites into the cream-cheese mixture. Pour the
  batter into the crust and bake for about 1 hour, or until the cake
  has puffed and trembles just slightly when shaken. A wooden skewer
  inserted in the cake should come out almost clean, with just a trace
  of batter or moist crumbs on it. Don't overbake; it will settle and
  firm somewhat as it cools. Don't worry if the cake cracks as it
  bakes. Remove and cool. Refrigerate if standing more than 4 hours.
  Garnish the top with grated chocolate.
  
  MARION CUNNINGHAM
  
  PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 

 

 
      Title: CHOCOLATE KISS COOKIES
 Categories: Cookies, Personal
      Yield: 46 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
      1 c  Butter; softened
      1 c  Brown sugar, packed
      1 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs
      2 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Almond extract
     16 oz Chocolate Kisses
  1 1/2 c  Chopped Nuts
           -(Pecans, Walnuts,
           - or Almonds)
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 375F. Combine flour, baking soda, salt and cinnamon;
  set aside. Beat butter and sugars until light. Beat in eggs, vanilla
  and almond extract. Blend in flour mixture. Chop 1 cup of kisses.
  Stir in chopped kisses and chopped nuts. Add 1 cup whole kisses. Drop
  heaping tablespoonfuls of the mixture onto an ungreased baking sheet
  2 inches apart. Bake in hot oven 8 to 10 minutes. Cool on wire rack.
  
  NATHALIE DUPREE
  
  PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 

 

 
      Title: CHOCOLATE PEANUT BUTTER CUP COOKIES
 Categories: Cookies, Personal
      Yield: 48 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Butter; softened
    3/4 c  Peanut butter
      1 c  Light brown sugar, packed
    1/2 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs
      2 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Peanut butter cups, chopped
    3/4 c  Peanuts, chopped
      1 c  Milk chocolate chips
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 375F. Sift together flour, soda and salt. Set aside.
  Beat together butter, peanut butter, brown sugar, sugar, eggs and
  vanilla until light and fluffy. Add dry ingredients and combine
  thoroughly. Fold in peanut butter cups, peanuts and chocolate chips.
  The batter will be stiff. Form into balls about the size of a
  tablespoon. Place on a greased cookie sheet and bake 12 minutes or
  until golden. Cool on a wire rack.
  
  NATHALIE DUPREE
  
  PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 

 

 
      Title: NEARLY BROWNIE COOKIES
 Categories: Cookies, Personal
      Yield: 50 servings
 
      8 oz Semisweet chocolate
      3 tb Butter
    1/4 c  All-purpose flour
    1/4 ts Baking powder
    1/8 ts Salt
      2    Eggs
    3/4 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Semisweet chocolate morsels
  2 1/4 c  Pecans, chopped roughly
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. Melt the semisweet chocolate and the butter
  over low heat or in the microwave. Stir until smooth. Sift together
  the flour, baking powder and salt. Beat eggs, sugar and vanilla at
  high speed until well combined. Slowly beat in the cooled chocolate,
  then the dry ingredients until just blended but smooth. Stir in the
  chocolate morsels and the nuts. Drop by heaping teaspoonfuls 1 inch
  apart on cookie sheets lined with parchment paper or aluminum foil.
  Bake 10-to-12 minutes. Do not over bake. Cool on a rack. May be made
  ahead or frozen.
  
  NATHALIE DUPREE
  
  PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 

 

 
      Title: VELVET FUDGE SOUFFLE
 Categories: Desserts, Red wine
      Yield: 16 servings
 
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
      6    Egg yolks
     16 oz Semisweet chocolate chips
  1 1/2 c  Chilled whipping cream
      2 pk Unflavored gelatin
  1 3/4 c  Sweet red wine
      6    Egg whites
    1/2 c  Sugar
           Sweetened whipping cream
 
  Extend height of 1-quart souffle dish 3 inches above dish with band of
  double thickness aluminum foil; secure ends of foil by folding
  together, taping or fastening with paper clips.
  Mix 1/2 cup sugar, the gelatin, salt and wine in 2-quart saucepan.
  Beat egg yolks slightly; stir yolks and chocolate chips into gelatin
  mixture. Cook over medium heat, stirring constantly, just until
  mixture boils.
  Chill pan in bowl of ice and water or refrigerator, stirring
  occasionally, just until mixture mounds slightly when dropped from a
  spoon, 20 or 30 minutes. Mixture should be slightly thicker than
  unbeaten egg whites. If mixture becomes too thick, place pan in bowl
  of hot water, stirring constantly, until mixture is of proper
  consistency.
  Beat egg whites until foamy in large mixer bowl. (Egg whites should
  be at room temperature when beaten for best volume.) Gradually beat
  in 1/2 cup sugar; beat until stiff and glossy. (Do not underbeat.)
  Fold thickened gelatin mixture into meringue.
  Beat 1 1/2 cups cream in chilled small mixer bowl until stiff; fold
  into meringue mixture. Carefully turn into souffle dish. Refrigerate
  until set, about 8 hours.
  Just before serving, run knife around inside of foil band and remove
  band. Garnish souffle with sweetened whipped cream.
 

 

 
      Title: CHOCOLATE-WINE BALLS
 Categories: Desserts, Red wine
      Yield: 42 servings
 
      6 oz Semisweet chocolate chips
  2 1/2 c  Finely crushed vanilla wafer
    1/3 c  Sweet red wine
    1/4 c  Honey
      2 c  Ground walnuts
           Granulated sugar
 
  Heat chocolate chips and honey in 3-quart saucepan over low heat,
  stirring constantly, until chocolate is melted. Remove from heat.
  Stir in vanilla wafers, walnuts and wine. Shape into 1-inch balls;
  roll in sugar.
  Store Chocolate-Wine Balls in tightly covered cookie jar or metal
  can. Let stand several days to blend flavors. Flavor improves with
  age up to 4 weeks.
 

 

 
      Title: THE AUTHENTIC MRS. FIELD'S COOKIES!
 Categories: Cookies, Desserts
      Yield: 100 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      1    Hershey Bar,plain(2oz)
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1    Egg
  1 1/4 c  Oatmeal
      1 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder
      1 pk Chocolate chips(6oz)
 
  1. Cream together butter, sugar, brown sugar. Add egg and vanilla.
  2. Put small amounts of oatmeal in blender; blend until it turns to
  powder; set aside.
  3. Grate Hershey Bar in blender or by hand; set aside.
  4. Mix powdered oatmeal, flour, salt, baking powder, and baking soda.
  5. Combine all above ingredients except chocolate; mix well.
  6. Add chocolate chips and grated Hershey Bar.
  7. Make golfball sized cookies, spaced 2" apart.
  8. Bake on an ungreased cookie sheet for 6-8 minutes at 400'F.
 

 

 
      Title: SOUR CREAM CHOCOLATE CAKE
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
      4 oz Chocolate,bitter
      1 c  Water,hot
      2    Eggs
      2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Sour cream
      2 c  Bread flour,sifted
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Vanilla

---------------------------ICING--------------------------------
      2 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Cocoa
      1 ts Corn syrup,white
    1/2 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine
      1 c  Pecans,chopped
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  *** CAKE ***
  1. Melt chocolate with hot water over low heat. Cream eggs and sugar
  thoroughly. Add sour cream and mix. Add flour, soda and salt.
  2. Combine chocolate mixture with egg mixture. Add vanilla.
  3. Pour into 2 greased and floured 8" cake pans. Place in cold oven.
  Set oven at 300 degrees and bake 30 to 35 minutes. Or cake may be
  baked 50 to 60 minutes in a 9x13" pan. Cool and ice.
  *** ICING ***
  Mix sugar and cocoa in saucepan. Add margarine, corn syrup and milk.
  Bring to a boil; boil 2 minutes. Cool 5 minutes. Beat until thick
  enough to spread. Add pecans and vanilla. Spread between layers and
  on top of cake.
 

 

 
      Title: CHOCOLATE-CHIP CAKE
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
    1/2 c  Brown sugar,packed
    1/2 c  Walnuts,chopped
      1 c  Semisweet-chocolate pieces
      3 c  Cake flour
  1 3/4 c  Sugar
  1 1/4 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Shortening
  2 1/2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla extract
      2    Eggs
 
  1. Prepare topping: In small bowl, mix brown sugar, walnuts, and 1/2
  cup semisweet-chocolate mini pieces; set aside. Preheat oven to
  350'F. Grease and flour 13x9" baking pan.
  2. Into large bowl, measure flour and remaining ingredients except
  remaining mini pieces. With mixer at low speed, beat until mixed,
  constantly scraping bowl. Increase speed to high; beat 2 minutes,
  occasionally scraping bowl. Stir in reserved mini pieces; pour into
  pan.
  3. Spread topping over batter. Bake 40 to 45 minutes, until toothpick
  inserted in center of cake comes out clean. Cool in pan on rack.
 

 

 
      Title: CHOCOLATE NUT SLICES
 Categories: Cookies, Condiments, Appetizers, Desserts
      Yield: 40 servings
 
    3/4 c  Butter Flavor Crisco
    1/2 c  Sugar, Granulated
      2 tb Milk
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
      1    Egg
  1 1/4 c  Flour, All Purpose
    1/3 c  Cocoa
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Pecans, Cut in Large Pieces
    1/2 c  Chocolate Chips, Semi-Sweet

--------------------------DRIZZLE-------------------------------
    1/2 c  White Melting Chocolate,
           - cut in small pieces
    1/2 ts Butter Flavor Crisco
           Chopped Pecans ( opt )
 
  Preparation Time: 20 Minutes                   Bake Time: 10 Minutes
  
  1. Heat oven to 350 F.
  
  2. Combine Butter Flavor Crisco, granulated sugar, brown sugar, milk
  and vanilla in large bowl at medium speed of electric mixer until
  well blended. Beat in egg.
  
  3. Combine flour, cocoa, baking soda and salt. Add to creamed
  mixture. Beat at low speed of electric mixer or by hand with large
  spoon, until blended. Stir in nuts and chocolate chips.
  
  4. Divide dough into 4 equal portions. Shape each into a 1x8 inch
  roll. ( Hint: Make dough rolls on wax paper. Pick up ends of wax
  paper and roll dough back and forth to get a nicely shaped roll. )
  Place 3 inche sapart on ungreased baking sheet.
  
  5. Bake at 350 for 10 minutes. Cool on baking sheet.
  
  6. For Drizzle: Melt white chocolate and 1/2 teaspoon Butter Flavor
  Crisco on VERY low heat or at 50% power in microwave. Stir. Drizzle
  from end of spoon back and forth over cooled cookie. Sprinkle with
  nuts before chocolate hardens, if desired.
  
  7. Cut diagonally in 1 inch slices.
  
  Makes 40 slices.
  
  Note: To harden chocolate quickly, place cookies in refrigerator for
  a few minutes.
  
  Source: Butter Flavor Crisco Cookie Collection, page 11. Shared by:
  David Knight
 

 

 
      Title: BUTTERSCOTCH BARS
 Categories: Cookies, Condiments, Appetizers
      Yield: 66 servings
 
    1/4 c  Butter Flavor Crisco
      1 pk Butterscotch Chips *
           - 12 ounce package
      1 c  Peanut Butter, creamy style
    1/3 c  Milk
      2 c  Graham Cracker crumbs
      1 c  Peanuts, salted, chopped
      1 pk Chocolate Chips, semi-sweet
           - 6 ounce package
      3 tb Butter Flavor Crisco
           Finely chopped Peanuts
 
  Preparation Time: 20 Minutes               Bake Time: None
  
  * Peanut Butter chips may be substituted for the Butterscotch Chips.
  
  1. Combine 1/4 cup Butter Flavor Crisco, butterscotch chips, peanut
  butter and milk in top of double boiler over hot water. Stir
  occasionally until mixture is melted and smooth.
  
  2. Combine graham cracker crumbs and 1 cup chopped nuts in large
  bowl. Pour butterscotch mixture over crumbs. Stir until combined.
  
  3. Spread mixture in ungreased 9x9x2 inch pan. ( Hint: If a 9x9x2
  inch pan is not available, form a 9x9x2 inch tray by lining a 13x9x2
  inch pan with aluminum foil. ) Refrigerate until firm. Cut into bars
  3/4 x 1 3/4 inches.
  
  4. Combine chocolate chips and 3 tablespoons Butter Flavor Crisco in
  top of double boiler over hot water. Stir occasionally until
  chocolate melts.
  
  5. Place one bar at a time in melted chocolate. Turn with fork. Lift
  from chocolate on fork. Allow excess to drip off. Place on paper
  lined baking sheet. Sprinkle top with finely chopped nuts. Return to
  refrigerator to harden chocolate.
  
  Makes 5 1/5 to 6 dozen bars.
  
  Source: Butter Flavor Crisco Cookie Collection, page 16. Shared by:
  David Knight
 

 

 
      Title: CHOCOLATE PISTACHIO ORANGE CAKE
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1    Pistachio Sponge
      1 c  Blanched pistachios
    3/4 c  Cake flour
      4    Eggs separated
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1 ts Grated lemon zest
    1/4 ts Almond extract
      1    Orange Ganache
     12 oz Chocolate, finely cut
      1 c  Heavy whipped cream
      3 tb Orange Liqueur
      1    Candied Orange Filling
    1/2 c  Candied orange peel
      2 tb Orange Liqueur
      1    Whipped Cream
  1 1/2 c  Heavy whipping cream
      2 tb Sugar
      2 tb Orange Liqueur
      1    Shaved Milk Chocolate
      1    Candied Orange Peel
      1    Blanched Pistachios
      1    Sugar, confectioners
      1    Moistening Syrup
    1/2 c  Water
    1/4 c  Sugar
      3 tb Orange Liqueur
 
  This striking and unusual dessert utilizes three flavors which
  harmonize beautifully in taste and appearance.
  
  Preparing the Sponge.  Butter a 9-inch diameter x 2 1/2 - to - inch
  deep springform pan and line the bottom with a piece of parchment
  paper, cut to fit.  Process the nuts in a food processor until very
  fine. Sift the cake flour over the nuts and combine.  Whip the yolks,
  then whip in half the sugar until light in color and aerated.  Whip
  the egg whites and salt on medium speed until white and opqaque.
  Increase the speed and whip in the remaining sugar.  Continue
  whipping the whites until the whites hold a firm peak.  Fold the
  yolks into the whites, then fold in the pistachio mixture in two or
  three additions.  Pour the batter into the prepared pan. Bake at 350
  degrees F about 30 minutes.  Remove from the pan and cool on a rack,
  on the paper.
  
  Preparing the Ganache.  Place the chocolate in a bowl.  Bring the
  cream to a boil and pour over the chocolate.  Let stand 2 minutes,
  then whisk smooth and strain into another bowl.  Refrigerate,
  whisking until cool, but not set.
  
  Preparing the Syrup.  Combine the water and sugar in a small pan and
  bring to a boil.  Cool and stir in the orange liqueur.
  
  Preparing the Filling.  Finely chop the peel and combine with the
  liqueur.
  
  Preparing the Whipped Cream.  Combine the cream, sugar and liqueur
  and whip on medium speed until firm.
  
  Assembling.  Using a sharp serrated knife, divide the Pistachio
  Sponge into two layers and place one on a cardboard.  Moisten with
  half the syrup and spread with most of the Ganache, reserving some
  for a decoration. Drain the candied peel and distribute evenly on the
  Ganache. Cover with a layer of whipped cream.  Place the second layer
  on the cream and moisten with the remaining syrup.  Cover the outside
  of the cake with the shipped cream and press the shavings against the
  side of the cake. Make a border of rosettes around the edge of the
  cake with the remaining Ganache and decorate the rosettes with
  cutouts  of candied peel and some pistachios. Place some chipped
  pistachios in the center and dust them lightly with confectioners'
  sugar.
  
  Holding.  Refrigerate the cake for up to 6 hours before serving.
 

 

 
      Title: CHOCOLATE NUT BROWNIES
 Categories: Cookies, Desserts, Diabetic
      Yield: 30 servings
 
      1    Square unsweetened chocolate
           ---=OR=---
      1 oz -No-melt unsweetened choc.
    1/2 c  Shortening
      2 tb Sweetener
      2 ts Vanilla
      2    Eggs; beaten
      1 c  Sifted all-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/4 c  Chopped nuts
 
  Melt shortening and chocolate over low heat. Remove from heat. Add
  liquid sweetener (forgot to put in the recipe that it was liquid),
  vanilla and beaten eggs. Stir until well blended. Add flour and
  baking soda; mix well. Stir in nuts. Pour into greased (can spray
  with Pam) 8" cake pan. Bake at 325 for 20 mins; cool. Cut into 30
  squares.
  
  Exchange: 2 brownies = 1/2 bread and 1 1/2 fat.
  
  FROM:    VIRGINIA SONIER   (HCMC24B)
 

 

 
      Title: PECAN-CHOCOLATE CHIP PIE
 Categories: Desserts, Personal
      Yield: 6 servings
 
---------------------------DOUGH--------------------------------
    1/2 lb Butter
    1/2 lb Cream cheese
      2 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Flour

--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      1 c  Pecans
      4 tb Unsalted butter
      2    Eggs
      1 c  Dark corn syrup
    1/4 c  Molasses
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
      1 ts Vanilla extract
    1/4 c  Chocolate chips (or more)
 
  FOR DOUGH: CREAM BUTTER, CREAM CHEESE and vanilla together in a mixer
  or processor. Reduce speed to low and add the flour. Mix until just
  incorporated. Remove the dough, form into three balls and wrap in
  plastic wrap. Chill one hour before using. Uncooked dough can be
  frozen up to two months. Freeze uncooked balls of dough or freeze
  dough in pie tins. Makes three 10-inch pies.
  
  FOR FILLING: MIX PECANS AND BUTTER in a small saucepan over medium
  heat and cook until butter turns a golden color. Remove from heat and
  set aside. In a mixing bowl combine eggs, corn syrup, molasses, brown
  sugar and vanilla. Mix until smooth and then mix in the pecans and
  butter. Pour this filling into the pie crust and sprinkle with the
  chocolate chips. Place on the middle rack of a preheated 350F oven
  and bake until the center of the pie is set, about 35 to 40 minutes.
  Remove from the oven and let the pie cool before serving.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 

 

 
      Title: BANGOR TOMATO DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE WITH CLASSIC BOILED ICING
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
      4 oz Sweet chocolate
    1/2 c  Milk
      1 c  Brown sugar, dark;packed
      3    Egg yolks, large
      2 c  Cake flour;sifted
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts -Salt
    1/2 c  Butter
      1 c  Sugar
      1 cn Tomato sauce; 8 oz
      1 tb Heavy cream
      1 ts Vanilla
      2    Egg whites, large

--------------------------FROSTING-------------------------------
    1/2 c  -Water
    1/3 c  Light corn syrup
  2 1/2 c  Sugar
      2    Egg whites, large
      1 pn -Salt
      1 ts Orange juice
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
 
     Preheat the oven to 350F. Grease and flour two 9 inch cake pans.
     To make the cakes: Combine chocolate, milk, brown sugar and 1 egg
  yolk in the top of the double boiler. Cook, stirring constantly, over
  hot water until smooth. Remove from heat.
      Sift the flour with the baking soda and salt into a medium bowl.
      Beat the butter in the large bowl of an electric mixer until
  light. Slowly beat in the sugar until light and fluffy. Add the two
  remaining egg yolks, one at a time, beating thoroughly after each
  addition. Slowly add the chocolate mixture.
      Combine the tomato sauce, cream and vanilla in a small bowl. Add
  to the batter in thirds, alternating with thirds of the flour mixture.
      Beat the egg whites until stiff; fold into the batter.
      Pour the batter into prepared pans. Bake until a toothpick
  inserted in the centre comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool on a
  wire rack before unmolding.
      FROSTING: Combine water, corn syrup and sugar in a medium
  saucepan. Heat to boiling; boil until the mixture thickens and forms
  a ball when a small spoonful is dropped into cold water (about 240F
  on a candy thermometer).
      Beat the egg whites in a large bowl of the electric mixer until
  stiff. Slowly beat in the hot syrup. Combine to beat until spreading
  consistency. Beat in orange juice and vanilla. Spread over bottom
  layer, the sides and tops of cake. SERVES 8-10
  
  SOURCE:_As American as Apple Pie_
 

 

 
      Title: INDIVIDUAL ALMOND-CREAM TARTS
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 20 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Flour,all-purpose
    2/3 c  Butter or margarine,cold
    1/2 c  Water,cold
      2    Eggs,separated
      2 pk Vanilla pudding(3 3/8oz)
  2 1/2 c  Milk
      1 c  Whipping cream
      1 ts Almond extract
      1 cn Mandarin-orange sect.(11oz)
      1    Kiwifruit,medium
      5    Strawberries,large
    1/4 lb Grapes,green,seedless
      1    Chocolate square,unsweetened
  5 1/2 oz Apple jelly
      1 ts Water
 
  1. Whip cream. Drain mandarin-orange sections. Peel and slice
  kiwifruit. Coarsely grate chocolate square. Prepare tart shells; Into
  medium-sized bowl, measure flour and butter or margarine. With
  fingertips, blend flour and butter until mixture resembles coarse
  crumbs. In cup, beat cold water with egg yolks. Add yolk mixture to
  flour mixture, stirring to mix well. Shape pastry into a ball.
  2. Preheat oven to 400'F. On well-floured surface, with floured
  rolling pin, roll pastry 1/8"-thick. With floured 4 1/4" round cookie
  cutter, cut out 20 pastry circles, rerolling trimmings if necessary.
  Gently press each circle onto bottom and up side of fluted tart pan
  (or use twenty-four 2 1/2" muffin-pan cups, and cut circles with a 3
  1/2" round cookie cutter). With fork, prick pastry in many places.
  Arrange tart pans in 2 jelly-roll pans for easy handling. Bake 20-25
  minutes until pastry is lightly browned.
  3. In cup, beat egg whites until frothy. Quickly brush hot tart
  shells with beaten egg whites. Cool tart shells in pans on wire racks
  10 minutes. With knife, gently loosen tart shells from sides of pans;
  remove from pans; cool completely on wire racks, about 20 mintes.
  4. When tarts shells are cool, prepare cream filling. Prepare 2
  packages of instant pudding mix as label directs, but prepare both
  packages together and use only a total of only 2 1/2 cups milk. With
  rubber spatula, fold whipped cream and almond extract into pudding.
  5. Spoon filling into tart shells. Decorate some filled tart shells
  with mandarin-orange sections, some with kiwifruit, some with
  strawberries, some with grapes, and some with chocolate.
  6. Prepare glaze: In small saucepan over medium-low heat, heat apple
  jelly with water, stirring often, until jelly melts and mixture is
  smooth; brush over fruit. Let glaze dry, about 10 minutes. Cover
  tarts and refrigerate.
 

 

 
      Title: EVERYBODY'S FAVORITE CHOCOLATE CAKE
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3    Chocolate squares,unsweetene
  2 1/2 c  Cake flour,sifted
      2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Butter,at room temperature
  2 1/2 c  Brown sugar,firmly packed
      3    Egg,at room temperature
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Sour cream
    3/4 c  Water,boiling
 
  1. Preheat oven to 325'F.
  2. Melt chocolate on a large square of aluminum foil in a very low
  oven, bringing up edges of foil to prevent spillage. Cool to room
  temperature.
  3. Grease and flour an oblong shallow baking pan, preferably glass,
  12x8x2".
  4. Sift flour, baking soda, and salt onto waxed paper and set aside.
  5. Beat butter in a large bowl until very light and fluffy (easier
  with an electric mixer). Add brown sugar and beat until very fluffy
  and no trace of sugary "grittiness" remains. Add eggs and beat until
  well blended, then stir in melted chocolate and vanilla. Add flour
  mixture alternately with sour cream, beating after each addition with
  a wooden spoon. Add boiling water and stir in well.
  6. At this stage the batter will be thin. Pour at once into prepared
  pan and bake in preheated oven for 35-40 minutes, or until cake tests
  done. Turn out onto cake rack and frost with Chocolate-Peanut Butter
  Frosting (recipe follows) or cut into squares and serve with whipped
  cream or vanilla ice cream.
 

 

 
      Title: PEANUT-PECAN CHOCOLATE CHIP COOKIES
 Categories: Cookies, Desserts
      Yield: 48 servings
 
    1/4 lb Butter
    1/4 c  Vegetable shortening
      2 tb Peanut butter
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Brown sugar,firmly packed
      1    Egg
      1 ts Vanilla
  1 3/4 c  Flour,all-purpose,sifted
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 c  Pecans,chopped
      1 pk Chocolate pieces,semisweet
 
  1. Preheat oven to 375'F.
  2. Mix butter, shortening, and peanut butter until soft and fluffy.
  Stir in sugars, egg, and vanilla; stir in dry ingredients; fold in
  pecans and chocolate pieces.
  3. Drop by teaspoons on ungreased cookie sheets about 2" apart. Bake
  in a preheated oven for 8-10 minutes, or until edges of cookies are
  lightly browned. Cool cookies for 5 minutes on cookie sheet before
  removing them and cooling them on a rack.
 

 

 
      Title: SYBIL CARTER'S QUICK PEANUT PIE
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    3/4    Sugar cookie dough*
      2    Chocolate candy bars**
      1 pk Vanilla pudding,instant
    1/4 c  Coconut,shredded
      2 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Marshmallows,miniature
 
  * - roasted coconut refrigerator
  ** - with peanuts, sliced
  
  1. Slice cookie dough into thin slices. Line lightly greased pie
  plate with cookies, pressing to form solid dough. Prick and bake at
  375'F. about 10 minutes, or until browned. Cool.
  2. Line with sliced candy bars. Prepare pudding according to package
  directions, add coconut, and pour over candy. Top with marshmallows.
  Chill.
 

 

 
      Title: PEANUT ROCKY ROAD
 Categories: Candies, Peanuts
      Yield: 36 servings
 
      2 pk Chocolate chips,semisweet
  1 1/2 c  Peanuts,dry-roasted,chopped
      2 c  Marshmallows,miniature
 
  Melt chocolate over hot water. Fold in peanuts and marshmallows.
  Spoon in mounds on waxed paper and chill until firm.
 

 

 
      Title: BLACK FOREST TORTE
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 3/4 c  Flour
  1 3/4 c  Sugar
  1 1/4 c  Water
  1 1/4 ts Soda
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/4 ts Baking powder
    2/3 c  Margarine, soft
      4 oz Unsweetened chocolate
      3    Eggs
 
  Heat oven to 350. Brush sides and bottom of four 9" round layer pans
  with butter. Bake only two layers at a time. Measure into a large
  mixer bowl all ingredients except eggs. Beat at low speed to blend;
  beat 2 minutes at medium speed, scraping bowl frequently. Add eggs;
  beat 2 minutes more. Pour 1/4 of batter into each pan; layers will be
  thin. Bake 15-18 minutes or until done. Cool slightly and remove from
  pan; cool thoroughly on greased waxed paper to prevent sticking.
  Alternate layers with chocolate filling and cream filling, ending
  with chocolate filling on top. Do not frost sides of torte.
 

 

 
      Title: CHOCOLATE CHEESECAKE
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Chocolate Wafer Crust
      1 pk Semisweet chocolate morse
      4 pk Cream cheese, softened
      2 c  Sugar
      4    Eggs
      1 tb Cocoa
      2 ts Vanilla extract
      1    Carton sour cream
           Whipped cream
 
  Press Chocolate Wafer Crust mixture on bottom and 1/2 inch up the
  sides of a 10 inch springform pan. Pre-bake as directed. Place
  chocolate morsels in top of double boiler; bring water to a boil.
  Reduce heat to low; cook until chocolate melts. Beat cream cheese at
  high speed with electric mixer until light and fluffy; gradually add
  sugar, mixing well after each addition. Stir in melted chocolate,
  cocoa, and vanilla; beat until blended. Stir in sour cream, blending
  well. Pour into prepared pan. Bake at 300 for 1 hour and 40 minutes.
  Let cool to room temperature on wire rack; chill at least 8 hours.
  Garnish with whipped cream. Yield 10-12 servings.
 

 

 
      Title: CHOCOLATE COVERED STRAWBERRIES
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Fresh strawberries
      1 pk Chocolate bark.
 
  Wash and drain strawberries. Pat dry with paper towel.  Leave stems
  intact. Place half of the chocolate in a microwave safe bowl.
  Microwave on high until melted (appx 2 min).  Holding berries by the
  stem, dip one at a time into the chocolate. Gently shake excess and
  place on waxed paper until firm. If chocolate becomes too thick
  reheat for a few seconds. Chocolate basket: cover a dish of desired
  shape (pie pan) with foil and spray lightly with Pam. Place melted
  chocolate in a ziploc bag and seal. Snip a small hole in the corner
  and drizzle the chocolate to create a basket. Chill until firm.
  Carefully remove the basket. Place on a serving tray and fill with
  chocolate covered strawberries.
 

 

 
      Title: CHOCOLATE FILLING
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 oz German's sweet chocolate
    3/4 c  Margarine or butter
    1/2 c  Chopped toasted almonds
 
  Melt chocolate bars over hot water; cool. Blend in margarine and stir
  in almonds.
 

 

 
      Title: CHOCOLATE PIXIES
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Margarine or butter.
      4 oz Unsweetened chocolate
      2 c  Flour
      2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Chopped walnuts
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      3    Eggs
 
  In a large saucepan over low heat, melt margarine and chocolate,
  stirring until smooth. Remove from heat; cool slightly. Lightly spoon
  flour into a measuring cup; level off. Stir in flour, sugar, walnuts,
  baking powder, salt, and eggs; blend in well. Cover; refrigerate at
  least 1 hour for easier handling. Heat oven to 300. Shape mixture
  into 1 inch balls; roll in powdered sugar (coat heavily). Place 2
  inches apart on ungreased cookie sheets. Bake at 300 for 15 - 18
  minutes or until edges are set. Remove from the cookie sheets
  immediately. 4 dozen cookies. OINK !
 

 

 
      Title: CHOCOLATE RICH 'N CREAMY SQUARES
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    BASE:
      1    Chocolate cake mix
      2    Eggs
      1    Stick of butter
      1 tb Milk
    1/2 c  Chopped pecans
      1    TOPPING:
      1 pk Cream cheese - softened
      2    Eggs
  3 1/2 c  Confectioners sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  1. Preheat oven to 350. Grease or spray Pam in 13x9x2" pan. Set
  aside. 2. FOR BASE, combine cake mix, 2 eggs, butter, milk and nuts
  in a large bowl. Mix well until just moistened. Spread evenly in pan.
  3. FOR TOPPING, beat cream cheese in large bowl at medium speed with
  electric mixer until smooth. Beat in 2 eggs,sugar, and vanilla until
  smooth. Spread evenly over base. 4. Bake at 350 for 35 minutes.
  Edges and top will be light golden brown and will have a slightly
  shiny appearance. Cool completely. Cut into squares. This recipe
  makes about 2 dozen bars. DON'T OVER EAT!
 

 

 
      Title: CHOCOLATE SHEET CAKE
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Sugar
      2 c  Plain flour
      2    Sticks margarine
      4 tb Cocoa
      1 c  Water
      2    Eggs
      1 ts Soda
    1/2 c  Buttermilk
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      1    Chocolate Fudge Icing:
      4 tb Cocoa
      1    Stick margarine
      6 tb Milk
      1    Box powdered sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Pecans
 
  Sift sugar and plain flour together in a large bowl. Mix together
  margarine, cocoa, and water in boiler and bring to boil. Pour this
  mixture over the flour and stir well. Add eggs, and soda dissolved in
  buttermilk. Mix well. Add cinnamon and vanilla. Mix well by hand and
  pour into a greased 9x13" pan. (Glass pan is best.) Bake at 400'F.
  for 20-25 minutes.
  
  Chocolate Fudge Icing: Melt together and boil cocoa, margarine milk.
  Add powdered sugar, vanilla, and pecans. Spread icing over cake in
  pan. Cut into squares.
 

 

 
      Title: CHOCOLATE WAFER CRUST
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  Chocolate wafer crumbs
    1/3 c  Butter or margarine, melt
 
  Combine crumbs and butter, mixing well. Firmly press crumb mixture
  evenly over bottom and sides of a 9 inch pie plate. Bake at 350 for
  6 - 8 minutes. SLOBBER!
 

 

 
      Title: GERMAN CHOCOLATE CAKE
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk German chocolate cake mix
      1 ts Chocolate flavoring
      1 ts Almond flavoring
      1 ts Butter flavoring
      1    GERMAN CHOCOLATE ICING:
  1 1/2 c  Evaporated milk
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      4    Egg yolks,slightly beaten
    3/4 c  Butter or margarine
  1 1/2 c  Vanilla flavoring
  1 1/2 c  Coconut
  1 1/2 c  Chopped pecans
 
  Prepare cake; in preparing cake, substitute milk for water, margarine
  or butter for oil; add flavorings. Bake according to directions on
  bok. GERMAN CHOCOLATE ICING: Combine evaporated milk, sugar, egg
  yolks, butter or margarine; vanilla flavoring. Cook above ingredients
  on medium heat, stirring constantly, until thick (about 2 min). Add
  coconut and pecans. Cook until thick enough to spread. SLOP IT UP!
 

 

 
      Title: HEAVENLY TOPPING
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter
      4 oz Unsweetened chocolate
      3 c  Sugar
      1 cn Pet milk
 
  Melt butter and chocolate in top of double boiler. Stir in sugar
  gradually about 4 tbsp. at a time. Add milk slowly. Cook until smooth
  and satiny. Heat as need to pour over ice cream, pound cake, etc.
  Stores well in refrigerator for a long period of time.
 

 

 
      Title: PETER PAUL MOUND CAKE
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Box chocolate cake mix
      1 cn Chocolate frosting.
     20    Marshmallows
      1 pk Coconut
      1 c  Evaporating milk
      1 c  Sugar
 
  Make cake according to directions on box. Heat milk, sugar,
  marshmallows. When marshmallows melt, add coconut. Split cake into 4
  layers. Space layers with coconut mixture. Frost with chocolate
  frosting.
 

 

 
      Title: BLACK FOREST BROWNIE PIE
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine,melted
      2 oz Unsweetened chocolate,
           -melted
    2/3 c  Sugar
      1 lg Egg
    1/4 c  Milk
    1/2 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  All-purpose flour
      1 cn Cherry pie filling

----------------------CHOCOLATE CRUST---------------------------
     24    Chocolate wafers
      3 tb Butter or margarine,melted

--------------------------FROSTING-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Semisweet chocolate chips,
      2 ts Whipping cream
 
  Combine butter, chocolate, sugar, egg, milk, and vanilla; beat well.
  Add flour and nuts; beat well. Spread batter into crust. Bake in a
  350'F. oven until top looks dry and feels firm when gently touched,
  18-20 minutes. cool; spread top with frosting. When frosting is cool,
  transfer cherries from can with a slotted spoon to top dessert.
  
  *** CHOCOLATE CRUST *** Finely crush chocolate wafers to make 1 1/4
  cups crumbs; pour into a 9" pie pan. Mix with 3 tablespooons melted
  butter or margarine and press firmly over pan bottom and up side.
  Bake in a 350'F. oven until darker brown at rim, 8-10 minutes, cool.
  
  *** FROSTIMG *** In a 1- to 1 1/2 quart pan over low heat, stir 1/2
  cup semisweet chocolate baking chips with 2 tablespoons whipping
  cream just until snooth. Use warm.
  
  ~ Gale Franko, Pullman, Washington
 

 

 
      Title: CHOCOLATE-APPLESAUCE CAKE
 Categories: Desserts, Snacks
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      2 c  Unsifted Unbleached Flour
      2 tb Cocoa
  1 1/2 ts Baking Soda
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Shortening
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      2 lg Eggs
      2 ts Vanilla Extract
      2 c  Unsweetened Applesauce
      6 oz Semisweet Chocolate Chips
    1/2 c  Chopped Walnuts
 
  This is one of the first cakes that I made in the 1970's.  There is
  no need to frost this one because it is sprinkled with chocolate
  chips and walnuts before baking.
  
  Yield: One 13 X 9-inch cake
  
  Sift the flour, cocoa, baking soda and salt together and set aside.
  Cream the shortening and sugar together in a large mixing bowl until
  light and fluffy, using an electric mixer set on medium speed.  Add
  the eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition.  Blend in
  the vanilla extract. Add the dry ingredientss alternately with the
  applesauce to the creamed mixture, beating well after each addition,
  using the mixer set on low speed.  Pour the batter into a greased 13
  X 9 X 2-inch baking pan. Sprinkle with the chocolate chips and
  chopped walnuts. Bake in a preheated 350 degree F. oven for 35
  minutes or until the cake test done. Cool in the pan on a wire rack.
  
  Makes 16 servings for normal people or about 8 for chocoholics.
  
  From The Farm Journal's Complete Home Baking Book Copyright 1975
 

 

 
      Title: DAN'S COOKIES
 Categories: Cookies, Snacks
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/3 c  Butter or margarine
    1/3 c  Shortening
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
    1/2 c  White sugar
      1    Egg
      2 ts Vanilla
  1 1/2 c  All purpose flour
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 c  Wheat germ
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts (we usually use
           -walnuts)
    1/2 c  Coconut
      6 oz Package semi-sweet chocolate
           -chips
 
  Preheat the oven to 375 degrees.  Cream the butter and shortening,
  add the sugars and beat until light and fluffy.  Add egg and vanilla,
  mix well, then add remaining ingredients (if you're using a mixer,
  stir in the last four ingredients with a spoon).  Drop by rounded
  teaspoonfuls on an ungreased cookie sheet and bakd for about 10
  minutes, or until golden brown.  Cool slightly before removing from
  cookie sheet.
  
  Makes several dozen depending on how big your "drops" are and how
  much of the dough you eat while you're dropping.
 

 

 
      Title: CHRISTMAS COOKIE BONANZA PART 4
 Categories: Cookies, Snacks, Christmas
      Yield: 42 servings
 
      1    Recipe Basic cookie mix
      2 lg Egg yolks
      1 tb Water
           Topping
    1/2 c  Packed light-brown sugar
    1/3 c  Dark corn syrup
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/4 c  Heavy cream
      2 c  Unsalted finely chopped
           -dry-roasted peanuts
     12 oz Semisweet chocolate
      3 tb Vegetable shortening
 
  CHOCOLATE-DIPPED PEANUT-BRITTLE FINGERS
  
  Preheat oven to 350F.  Grease 15 1/2x10 1/2x1" jelly-roll pan; line
  bottom and sides with sheet of aluminum foil.  Grease foil.
  
  In large bowl of electric mixer, combine cookie mix, egg yolks and the
  water.  At low speed, beat just until mixture forms a  crumbly dough.
  Pat mixture over foil on bottom of prepared pan; bake 20 min or until
  dough is golden brown.  Remove pan from oven.
  
  Make peanut-brittle topping: In heavy med saucepan, combine brown
  sugar, corn syrup, butter and heavy cream; over med heat, bring to
  boiling, stirring.  Cook, stirring constantly, until butter melts and
  mixture is smooth.  Stir in peanuts.
  
  Spread peanut-brittle topping mixture over cookies in pan; bake  15
  min or until topping is brown and bubbly.  Remove pan from oven; cool
  cookies slightly.  Using ends of aluminum foil, lift cookies from
  pan; cut crosswise into thirds.  Cut lengthwise into 14 strips;
  remove cookies from aluminum foil.  Cool cookie "fingers" completely
  on rack.
  
  Line another wire rack with waxed paper.  In top of double boiler
  over hot, not boiling, water, combine chocolate and shortening.  Over
  low heat, cook mixture, stirring, until chocolate and shortening are
  melted and mixture is smooth.  Dip each cookie finger into chocolate
  mixture to cover halfway; place cookie on prepared rack to dry.
  
  Makes 42 cookies.
  
  LEMON LINZER COOKIES
  
  1 recipe basic cookie mix 1 lg egg 1 tsp grated lemon zest (colored
  part of peel) 1 tsp fresh lemon juice 1/2 c seedless raspberry jam
  
  Confectioners' sugar for dusting
  
  Preheat oven to 350F.  Lightly grease two baking sheets.
  
  In large bowl of electric mixer, combine cookie mix, egg, lemon zest
  and lemon juice.  At low speed, beat until mixture forms a dough.
  
  Divide dough in half.  Working one half at a time, on lightly floured
  surface, with lightly floured rolling pin, roll out dough 1/8" thick;
  cut out with 3" round cookie cutter, cut out centers of half of the
  cookies. If desired, reroll dough centers for additional cookies.
  
  Transfer dough rounds and rings to prepared baking sheets.  Bake 8
  min or until cookies are golden; transfer to wire rack to cool
  completely.
  
  With 1 tsp jam each, cover flat sides of rounds.  Place a cookie
  ring, flat side down, on top of each filling-topped round.  Dust tops
  of cookies with confectioners' sugar.
  
  Makes 2 dozen cookies. Posted by Theresa Merkling.
 

 

 
      Title: EASY MAPLE SQUARES
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    Beaten eggs
    2/3 c  Cooking oil
      1 c  Dark maple syrup
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Chocolate chips
    1/2 c  Chopped walnuts
      2 c  Flour
 
  by Vera Lesure
  
  Mix in order given.  Pour into 13 x 9 pan, bake at 350 for 30
  minutes. Do not overbake.
 

 

 
      Title: EASY CHOCOLATE MOUSSE
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Squares (1 oz eaach)
           -semisweet chocolate,
           -chopped coarsely
      1    Square (1 oz) unsweetened
           -chocolate, chopped coarsely
      3 tb Brandy, dark rum or strong
           -coffee
      2    Eggs
    1/3 c  Sugar
    1/8 ts Salt
    2/3 c  Heavy cream
 
  A light mousse; the blender method (recipe follows) makes a darker,
  denser mousse.
  
  whipped cream for garnish (optional)
  
  In small heavy suacepan over low heat, melt chocolates with the
  brandy. Stir until smooth; set aside.  In a small bowl, beat eggs,
  sugar and salt until fluffy.  Add cream; beat until mixture mounds
  slightly. Beat in chocolate mixture until well blended.  Spoon into
  serving bowl, 4 glasses or dessert dishes.  Chill.  Garnish with
  whipped cream.
  
  Blender method: In blender whirl eggs, sugar and salt 45 seconds or
  until frothy.  Add cream; blend 10 seconds.  Add chocolate mixture;
  blend until smooth.  Proceed as above.
 

 

 
      Title: EASY TO MAKE BROWNIES
 Categories: Desserts, Nuts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter
      1 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla
    2/3 c  Sifted flour
    2/3 c  Cut up nuts
      2    Sq melted chocolate
 
  Cream butter, add sugar, eggs, vanilla. Then flour, chocolate and
  nuts. Line 9 x 12 pan with waxed paper. Bake 25 min at 325 degrees.
  These will be soft and chewy.
 

 

 
      Title: EASY PEANUT BUTTER CHOCOLATE FUDGE
 Categories: Desserts, Peanuts, Candies
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 pk Peanut butter flavored chips
           -(12-ounce)
      1 cn Eagle Brand Sweetened
           -Condensed Milk (14-ounce)
           (Not evaporated)
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine
    1/2 c  Chopped peanuts, optional
      1 pk Semi-sweet chocolate morsels
           -(6-ounce)
 
  Makes about 2 pounds
  
  In a large saucepan, melt peanut butter chips, 1 cup sweetened
  condensed milk and 2 tablespoons butter; stir occasionally. Remove
  from heat; stir in peanuts. Spread mixture into waxed paper-lined
  8-inch square pan. In a small saucepan, melt chocolate morsels,
  remaining sweetened condensed milk and butter. Spread chocolate
  mixture on top of peanut butter mixture. Chill two hours or until
  firm. Turn fudge onto cutting board; peel off paper and cut into
  squares. Tightly cover any leftovers.
  
  Recipe from Borden Eagle Brand Sweetened Condensed Milk.
 

 

 
      Title: EASY-TO-MAKE BARS
 Categories: Candies, Cookies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 lb Margarine
      1 c  Crushed Soda Crackers
      1 c  Coconut
      1 c  Chocolate Chips
      1 c  Chopped nuts (optional)
      1    - 15 oz can Sweetened
           -Condensed milk
 
  Melt the margarine & add soda crackers; spread in a 13"x9" cake pan.
  Sprinkle coconut, chocolate chips & nuts evenly over it.  Pour milk
  over it & bake in a 350 Degree oven for 20 minutes. Jane P.
 

 

 
      Title: ORANGE-CHOCOLATE CHIPPERS
 Categories: Cookies, Travel, Desserts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 c  Shortening
      6 oz Cream Cheese; Softened,(2PK)
    1/2 c  Sugar; Granulated
    1/2 c  Brown Sugar; Packed
      2    Eggs; Large
      2 ts Orange Peel; Grated
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Flour; Unbleached
      2 ts Baking Powder
      1 ts Salt
      6 oz Chocolate Chips; Semisweet
    1/2 c  Nuts; Finely Chopped(Option)
 
  Servings: 12
  
  Cream together shortening, cheese, and sugars.  Add eggs, peel, and
  vanilla; beat well.  Stir together flour, baking powder, and salt;
  add to creamed mixture.  Mix well.  Stir in chocolate chips.  Drop
  from teaspoon 2 inches apart on an ungreased cookie sheet.  If
  desired sprinkle lightly with nuts or granulated sugar. Bake at 350
  degrees F about 10 minutes.
  
  Makes 6 dozen cookies.
 

 

 
      Title: ORANGE TRUFFLES
 Categories: Desserts, Foreign
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  5 1/4 oz (150g) semisweet chocolate
  4 1/3 oz (125g) unsalted butter
  4 1/3 oz (125g) confectioners' sugar
    3/4 c  Plus not quite 2 tbsp
           -Cointreau (2 cl)
      3 tb Orange marmalade
           Confectioners' sugar for
           -shaping
  1 3/4 oz (50 gr) chopped almonds
 
  Break chocolate into pieces and put into heavy bowl on top of double
  boiler filled with hot water. In another bowl, cream butter and
  confectioners' sugar. Gradually stir in marmalade, Cointreau and
  melted chocolate. Cover bowl with baking parchment and refrigerate
  for 20 minutes.
  
  Dip your hands into confectioners' sugar prior to shaping truffles.
  Scoop out a small chunk of the chocolate mass (about 1/2 teaspoonful)
  and roll into a ball between your hands.  Press into chopped almonds,
  and then roll once more, making sure that the truffles are totally
  covered with almonds. Place into candy cases and store in a cool
  place.
  
  Yield:  50 truffles. Preparation time: 35 minutes Approx. 60 calories
  per piece (251 Joule)
  
  From:  Al Martin (German version), translation: Karin Brewer
 

 

 
      Title: PINEAPPLE CHEESE PIE
 Categories: Desserts, Fruits
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Chocolate chip or gingersnap
           -cookie crumbs
      3 tb Butter, melted
      1 pk (3-1/2 oz) instant vanilla
           -pudding mix
      1 ct (8 oz) plain yogurt
      1 pk (8 oz) cream cheese,
           -softened
    1/4 c  Orange juice
      4 ts Grated orange peel
      1 cn (20 oz) Dole pineapple
           -slices (in unsweetened
           -pineapple juice)
      1 ts Each: sugar, cornstarch
 
  Recipe Corner 8/92  Sonya Whitaker-Quandt
  
  Combine crumbs with butter. Press in 9-inch pie plate. Bake in 400
  degree oven 5 minutes. Beat together pudding mix, yogurt, cream
  cheese, orange juice and 2 tsp orange peel (mixture is stiff). Turn
  into crust. Chill. Drain pineapple, reserve 1/2 cup juice. Combine
  juice, sugar and cornstarch. Cook, stirring until boils and thickens.
  Cool. Stir in remaining orange peel. Arrange pineapple over top of
  pie. Spoon sauce over pineapple. Serves 6.
 

 

 
      Title: LEMON CHIFFON PIE
 Categories: Pies
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Deep dish pie shell,baked
      1 ts Unflavored gelatin
    1/4 c  Water
      3    Large eggs,separated
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
      2 ts Grated lemon peel
      3    Drops yellow food coloring
      1 c  Whipped topping,thawed
      1    Chocolate shavings,garnish
      1    Lemon slices,garnish
 
  Servings:  8
  
  Soak gelatin in water.In double boiler over gently simmering water,
  beat yolks;add 1/2 cup sugar and lemon juice.Cook,stirring until
  mixture coats the bottom of a spoon.Add grated lemon peel,gelatin and
  food coloring.Stir well.Cool in refrigerator about 1/2 hour until
  slightly thickened.Beat egg whites with 1/2 cup sugar;fold into lemon
  mixture.Fold in whipped topping.Spoon into baked pie
  crust.Refrigerate 2 to 3 hours before serving.garnish with chocolate
  shavings and lemon slices.
 

 

 
      Title: Penny Sous * Part 1 of 2
 Categories: Desserts, Chocolate
      Yield: 24 servings
 
-------------------KAREN PHILLIPS CBTX40A------------------------
     24    Whole Virginia peanuts
           -unsalted, shelled
    1/2 c  Heavy cream
      6 T  Creamy peanut butter
     14 oz Semi-sweet chocolate;
           -broken into 1/2 oz pieces
 
  Equipment: 3 baking sheets with sides, film wrap,
  instant-read test thermometer, cake spatula, 1
  1/2-inch round cookie cutter, parchment paper, pastry
  bag, medium straight tip
  
  Preheat the oven to 325 degrees. Toast the peanuts on
  a baking sheet in the preheated oven until golden
  brown, about 6 to 7 minutes. Remove the peanuts from
  the oven and set aside until needed.
  
  Heat the heavy cream and the peanut butter in a 1
  1/2-qt saucepan over medium-high heat. Stir with a
  whisk to combine thoroughly. Bring the mixture to a
  boil. Place 6 ounces of semi-sweet chocolate in a
  stainless steel bowl. Pour the boiling cream and
  peanut butter mixture over the chocolate, and allow to
  stand at room temperature for 5 minutes. Stir until
  smooth. Refrigerate the peanut butter ganache for 30
  minutes.
  
  Cover the bottom of a baking sheet with film wrap.
  Heat 1 inch of water in the bottom half of a double
  boiler over medium heat. Place the remaining 8 ounces
  of semi-sweet chocolate in the top half. Heat the
  chocolate uncovered, while stirring constantly, until
  it has melted, about 4 to 5 minutes. Transfer the
  melted chocolate to a stainless steel bowl, and
  continue to stir until the temperature of the
  chocolate is reduced to 90 degrees, about 5 minutes.
  
  Continued >>>
 

 

 
      Title: Rose's Chocolate Pots De Creme
 Categories: Desserts, Chocolate
      Yield: 8 servings
 
-------------------KAREN PHILLIPS CBTX40A------------------------
      1 c  Heavy cream
    3/4 c  Whole milk
     12 oz Semi-sweet chocolate;
           -fine chopped
      6    Egg yolks
      1 T  Kahlua
 
  EQUIPMENT: Measuring cup, cook's knife; cutting board,
  measuring spoons, 2 1/2-qt saucepan, double boiler,
  rubber spatula, whisk, instant-read test thermometer,
  2 stainless steel bowls (1 large), 8 small pot de
  creme forms or custard cups, & film wrap.
  
  Heat the heavy cream and milk in a 2 1/2-qt saucepan
  over medium heat. Bring to a boil. While the cream is
  heating, heat 1 inch of water in the bottom half of a
  double boiler over medium-high heat. Place the
  chocolate in the top half and stir with a rubber
  spatula until melted. Whisk the egg yolks into the
  melted chocolate. Slowly pour the boiling cream and
  milk into the chocolate, whisking constantly. Bring
  tjo a temperature of 160 degrees, about 3 1/2 to 4
  minutes. Remove the mixture from the heat and transfer
  to a stainless steel bowl. Add the Kahlua. Cool in an
  ice water bath, stirring constantly with a whisk to a
  temperature of 90 degrees, about 4 to 5 minutes.
  
  Evenly divide the mixture into 8 small pots de creme
  forms or custard cups. Cover each with film wrap and
  refrigerate for 2 to 3 hours to set before serving.
  
  Serve within 2 days.
  
  Source: Death by Chocolate Cookbook by Marcel
  Desaulniers
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Raspberry Toasted Hazelnut Ice Cream
 Categories: Desserts, Chocolate, Ice cream
      Yield: 1 servings
 
-------------------KAREN PHILLIPS CBTX40A------------------------
      1 c  Hazelnuts
    1/2 pt Red raspberries
      4 oz Semi-sweet chocolate;
           -broken into 1/2 oz pcs
  1 1/2 c  Heavy cream
      1 c  Half-and-half
      2 oz Unsweetened chocolate;
           -broken into 1/2 oz pcs
    3/4 c  Granulated sugar
      4    Egg yolks
    1/2 c  Whole milk
 
  EQUIPMENT: Measuring cup, 2 baking sheets with sides,
  100%-cotton kitchen towel, saute pan, double boiler,
  film wrap, 2 stainless steel bowls (1 large), rubber
  spatula, whisk, ladle or metal spoon, 2 1/2-qt
  saucepan, electric mixer with paddle, instant-read
  test thermometer, ice-cream freezer, 2-qt plastic
  container with lid.
  
  Preheat the oven to 325 degrees. Toast and skin the
  hazelnuts. Lightly crush the nuts with the bottom of a
  saute pan.
  
  Heat 1 inch of water in the bottom half of a double
  boiler over medium-high heat. Place the semi-sweet and
  unsweetened chocolates and milk in the top half of the
  double boiler. Tightly cover the top with film wrap.
  Allow to heat for 8 to 10 minutes, then transfer to a
  stainless steel bowl and stir until smooth.
  
  Crush the raspberries in a stainless steel bowl using
  a ladle or metal spoon (be sure to crush, not puree,
  the berries). Stir crushed berries into chocolate
  mixture and hold at room temperature. Heat the heavy
  cream and half-and-half in a 2 1/2-qt. saucepan over
  medium-high heat. When hot, add 1/4 cup of sugar, and
  stir to dissolve. Bring cream to a boil.
  
  Continued >>>
 

 

 
      Title: Banana, Walnut, And Chocolate Chip Fritters *
 Categories: Desserts, Chocolate
      Yield: 24 servings
 
-------------------KAREN PHILLIPS CBTX40A------------------------
  1 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
    3/4 c  Budweiser beer
      6 T  Light brown sugar
      1    Egg
      2 T  Baking powder
      2 t  Lemon juice
      2 T  Cornstarch
    3/4 c  Walnuts; chopped 1/4" pcs
    1/2 t  Salt
    1/2 t  Cinnamon
    3/4 c  Semi-sweet chocolate chips
      1 lb Medium bananas
      6 c  Vegetable oil
      2 T  Confectioners' sugar
 
  EQUIPMENT: Measuring cup, measuring spoons, cook's
  knife, cutting board, 3 stainless steel bowls (1
  large), slotted spoon, whisk, rubber spatula, deep
  fryer or heavy-guage 4-qt saucepan, candy/deep frying
  thermometer, #50 (1 1/2 tbsp) ice-cream scoop, tongs,
  baking sheet, paper towels.
  
  In a large stainless steel bowl, combine the flour,
  light brown sugar, baking powder, cornstarch, salt,
  and cinnamon. Set aside.
  
  Peel the bananas. Smash them to a rough-textured
  consistency in a stainless steel bowl using a slotted
  spoon (they should yield about 1 cup). In another
  stainless steel bowl whisk together the beer, egg, and
  lemon juice. Pour the this mixture over the bananas,
  and use the slotted spoon to combine thoroughly.
  
  Continued >>>
 

 

 
      Title: Chilled Orange Cappuccino Cream W/ Grated Choc
 Categories: Beverage, Chocolate
      Yield: 8 servings
 
-------------------KAREN PHILLIPS CBTX40A------------------------
      4 c  Heavy cream
      4 T  Cornstarch
  1 1/2 c  Half-and-half
      4 T  Instant espresso powder
      6    Egg yolks
      2 T  Grand Marnier
      2    Eggs
    1/2 oz Chunk semi-sweet chocolate;
           -finely grated
    1/2 c  Granulated sugar
 
  EQUIPMENT:  Measuring cup, measuring spoons, hand
  grated, 2 1/2-qt saucepan, electric mixer with paddle,
  and balloon whip, rubber spatula, whisk, instant-read
  test thermometer, 2 stainless steel bowls (1 large),
  pastry bag, 8  8-oz coffee cups
  
  Heat 1 1/2 cups of heavy cream and the half-and-half
  in a 2 1/2-qt saucepan over medium-high heat. Bring to
  a boil.
  While the cream is heating, combine the egg yolks,
  eggs, sugar, cornstarch, and instant espresso powder
  in the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with a paddle.
  Beat the mixture on high for 2 minutes, scrape down
  the sides of the bowl, and continue mixing on high
  until the mixture is slightly thickened, about 1 1/2
  to 2 minutes. (At this point the cream should be
  boiling. If not, adjust the mixer speed to low and
  continue to mix until the cream boils. If his is not
  done, the eggs will develop undesirable lumps.)
  Pour the boiling cream into the beaten egg mixture and
  whisk to combine. Return to the saucepan and heat over
  medium-high heat, whisking constantly, until the cream
  reaches a temperature of 180 degrees, about 5 to 6
  minutes. Remove from the heat and transfer to a
  stainless steel bowl. Cool the espresso-custard
  mixture in an ice-water bath to a temperature for 40
  to 45 degrees, about 20 to 25 minutes.
  
  Continued >>>
 

 

 
      Title: Tipsy Chocolate Pecan Crunch Ice Cream * Part
 Categories: Desserts, Chocolate, Ice cream
      Yield: 1 servings
 
-------------------KAREN PHILLIPS CBTX40A------------------------
      1 c  Pecan halves
      2 c  Heavy cream
      2 c  Granulated sugar
      2 c  Half-and-half
    1/4 t  Lemon juice
      8    Egg yolks
      1 oz Unsweetened chocolate;
           -broken into 1/2 oz pcs
    1/4 c  Myer's Dark Rum
 
  EQUIPMENT: Measuring cup, measuring spoons, baking
  sheet with sides, 2 2 1/2-qt. saucepan, whisk, metal
  spoon, cook's knife, cutting board, 2-qt. plastic
  container w/ lid, electric mixer with paddle, rubber
  spatula, instant-read test thermometer, 2 stainless
  steel bowls (1 large), ice cream freezer
  
  Preheat the oven to 325 degrees. Toast the pecan
  halves on a baking sheet in the preheated oven for 10
  to 12 minutes. Cool to room temperature. Combine 1 1/4
  cups of sugar and the lemon juice in a 2 1/2-qt
  saucepan. Stir with a whisk to combine (the sugar will
  resemble moist sand). Caramelize the sugar for 8 to 10
  minutes over medium-high heat, stirring constantly
  with a whisk to break up any lumps (the sugar will
  first turn clear as it liquefies, then light brown as
  it caramelizes). Remove the saucepan from the heat.
  Add the unsweetened chocolate and stir gently to
  blend. Pour the chocolate-caramel mixture over the
  pecans and stir with a spoon to completely coat the
  pecans with the chocolate caramel; spread the mixture
  evenly over the bottom of the baking sheet. Freeze the
  chocolate pecan crunch for 20 minutes. Remove from the
  freezer. Chop the chocolate pecan crunch into 1/4"
  pieces. Store in a sealed plastic container in the
  freezer until needed.
  
  Continued >>>
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Almond Crisps * Part 1 of 2
 Categories: Desserts, Chocolate
      Yield: 30 servings
 
-------------------KAREN PHILLIPS CBTX40A------------------------

-------------------ALMOND MERINGUE CRISPS------------------------
    3/4 c  Sliced almonds
    1/2 c  Plus 2 T granulated sugar
      2    Egg whites
    1/8 t  Cream of tartar
    1/8 t  Salt
    1/2 t  Almond extract
      1 t  Cornstarch
      1 T  Confectioners' sugar

---------------------CHOCOLATE GANACHE--------------------------
      6 oz Semi-sweet chocolate;
           -broken into 1/2-oz pcs.
      7 T  Heavy cream
      1 t  Granulated sugar
      1 t  Unsalted butter
 
  EQUIPMENT:  Measuring cup, measuring spoons, 2 baking
  sheets, food processor with metal blade, electric
  mixer with balloon whip, rubber spatula, parchment
  paper, pastry bag, double boiler, film wrap, whisk, 1
  1/2-qt saucepan, small stainless steel bowl, medium
  star tip
  
  Preheat the oven to 325 degrees. Lightly toast the
  almonds on a baking sheet in the preheated oven for 5
  minutes. Remove from the oven and cool to room
  temperature. Reduce the oven temperature to 225
  degrees. In the bowl of a food processor fitted with a
  metal blade, coarsely process the toasted almonds with
  2 tablespoons of sugar into pieces 1/8 inch in size.
  Set aside until needed.
  Line two baking sheets with parchment paper. Create a
  meringue by whisking the egg whites on medium speed in
  the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with a balloon
  whip. Whisk until frothy, about 1 minute. Add the
  cream of tartar and salt, increase speed to high, and
  whisk until the egg whites begin to stiffen, 1 to 1
  1/2 minutes. While continuing to whisk on high speed,
  gradually add 1/2 cup granulated sugar. The egg whites
  should form peaks that are stiff, but not dry, about 2
  to 3 minutes. Add almond extract and whisk on high for
  an additional 30 seconds. Remove the bowl from the
  mixer and use a rubber spatula to fold in the chopped
  almonds and cornstarch.
  
  Directions Continued >>>
 

 

 
      Title: Fresh Berry Tulip W/White Chocolate "Ice Cream
 Categories: Dessert, Chocolate
      Yield: 8 servings
 
-------------------KAREN PHILLIPS CBTX40A------------------------
     12 T  Unsalted butter
      2 c  Granulated sugar
      6    Egg whites
    1/4 t  Pure vanilla extract
      2 c  All-purpose flour
  1 1/2 pt Red raspberries
      3 c  Heavy cream
           WHITE CHOCOLATE "ICE CREAM"
      2 pt Strawberries; stem/quarter
      1 pt Blueberries; stem/washed
    1/2 pt Blackberries
 
  EQUIPMENT: Measuring cup, measuring spoons, paring
  knife, 9-inch cake circle, parchment paper, electric
  mixer w/ paddle and balloon whip, rubber spatula,
  double boiler, whisk, 2 baking sheets, cake spatula,
  46-oz juice can, 100%-cottong kitchen towel, food
  processor with metal blade, ice cream scoop
  
  With a pencil, trace a 9-inch circle on each of 8
  sheets of parchment paper (each one cut to fit a
  baking sheet). Preheat oven to 350 degrees.
  
  Combine butter and 1 1/2 cups of sugar in the bowl of
  an electric mixer fitted with a paddle. Beat the
  butter on low for 1 minute, on medium for 1 minute,
  and on high for 1 minute. Scrape down the sides of the
  bowl and beat on high for 1 additional minute. Once
  again, scrape down the bowl.
  
  Heat 1 inch of water in the bottom half of a double
  boiler over high heat. Place the egg whites in the top
  half of the double boiler and continuously whisk the
  whites while heating to a temperature of 110 degrees,
  about 1 minute. Slowly pour 1/2 of the beaten whites
  into the butter mixture while mixing on high, about 1
  minute. Scrape down the bowl. Slowly add the remaining
  whites while mixing on high. Scrape down the bowl. Mix
  on high for 15 more seconds. Add the vanilla extract
  and beat on high for 5 seconds. Add the flour, mixing
  on low for 10 to 15 seconds, until the batter pulls
  away from the sides of the bowl. Remove the bowl from
  the mixer. Use a rubber spatula to finish mixing the
  batter, until it is smooth and thoroughly combined.
  
  Continued >>>
 

 

 
      Title: Caramel Banana Chocolate Chip Ice Cream * Part
 Categories: Dessert, Chocolate
      Yield: 8 servings
 
-------------------KAREN PHILLIPS CBTX40A------------------------
  1 1/4 lb Medium bananas; unpeeled
      2 c  Half-and-half
  1 1/2 c  Granulated sugar
      6    Egg yolks
    1/8 t  Lemon juice
      1 c  Semisweet chocolate chips
      2 c  Heavy cream
 
  EQUIPMENT: Measuring cup, measuring spoons, 2
  stainless steel bowls (1 large), slotted spoon, film
  wrap, 2 1/2-qt saucepan, whisk, electric mixer with
  paddle, rubber spatula, instant-read test thermometer,
  ice-cream freezer, 2-qt plastic container with lid
  
  Peel the bananas. Using a slotted spoon, smash them to
  a rough-textured consistency in a stainless steel
  bowl. Cover with film wrap and set aside.
  
  Place 1/2 cup of sugar and the lemon juice in a 2
  1/2-qt saucepan. Stir with a whisk to combine (the
  sugar will resemble moist sand). Caramelize the sugar
  for 5 to 6 minutes over medium-high heat, stirring
  constantly with a whisk to break up any lumps (the
  sugar will first turn clear as it liquefies, then
  light brown as it caramelizes). Reduce the heat to
  medium.
  
  Carefully and slowly pour the heavy cream, then the
  half-and-half into the caramelized sugar (the mixture
  will steam and boil rapidly as the cream is added).
  Add 1/2 cup of sugar and whisk to dissolve. Bring to a
  boil, about 5 minutes.
  
  Continued >>>
 

 

 
      Title: Red Pear Sorbet & "Ice Cream" W/ Pralines & Ca
 Categories: Dessart, Chocolate
      Yield: 4 servings
 
-------------------KAREN PHILLIPS CBTX40A------------------------

----------------------RED PEAR SORBET---------------------------
      3    Ripe red pears;
           -(Preferably Bartlett)
      1 T  Fresh lemon juice
      1 c  Water
      6 T  Granulated sugar
    1/4 t  Finely chopped lemon zest

-----------------PRALINES & CARAMEL SABAYON----------------------
    1/2 c  + 2 tbsp granulated sugar
      2    Egg yolks
    1/8 t  Fresh lemon juice
     16 lg Pecan halves
      4 T  Heavy cream
      1    Egg
           White Chocolate "Ice Cream"
 
  EQUIPMENT: Measuring spoons, measuring cup, zester or
  vegetable peeler, paring knife, cutting board, cook's
  knife, hand grater, 2 stainless steel bowls (1 large),
  2 1/2-qt saucepan, whisk, instant-read test
  thermometer, ice-cream freezer, dinner fork, nonstick
  baking sheet, 2 2-qt plastic containers, double boiler
  
  Core and quarter the pears (do not peel). Grate the
  pear quarters, then place the grated pear in a
  stainless steel bowl and toss with 1 tablespoon lemon
  juice. Refrigerate until needed. Heat the water,
  sugar, and lemon zest in a 2 1/2-qt saucepan over
  medium-high heat. Whisk to dissolve sugar. Bring to a
  boil and boil for about 5 minutes until slightly
  thickened.
  Pour the hot sugar mixture over the grated pear and
  stir. Cool in an ice-water bath to a temperature of 40
  to 45 degrees, about 15 minutes. When cold, freeze in
  an ice-cream freezer following the manufacturer's
  instructions. Transfer the semi-frozen sorbet to a
  plastic container then freeze for several hours.
  Serve within 2 days.
  
  Directions Continue>>>
 

 

 
      Title: Port Wine Ice Cream With Hot "Liquor" Sauce *
 Categories: Dessert, Chocolate
      Yield: 6 servings
 
-------------------KAREN PHILLIPS CBTX40A------------------------

--------------------PORT WINE ICE CREAM-------------------------
      1 c  Heavy cream
      1 c  Half-and-half
    3/4 c  Granulated sugar
      6    Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Port
      3 T  Grenadine

---------------------HOT "LIQUOR" SAUCE--------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Heavy cream
      1 c  Packed dark brown sugar
      9 T  Unsalted butter
      1 c  Granulated sugar
  1 1/2 c  Hershey's chocolate cocoa;
           -sifted & unsweetened
    1/4 t  Salt
 
  EQUIPMENT: Measuring cup, measuring spoons, 2 1/2-qt
  saucepan, whisk, electric mixer with paddle, rubber
  spatule, instant-read test thermometer, 2 stainless
  steel bowls (1 large), ice-cream freezer, 2-qt plastic
  container with lid, ice cream scoop or paddle
  
  Port Wine "Ice Cream" Heat the heavy cream and
  half-and-half in a 2 1/2-qt saucepan over medium-high
  heat. When hot, add 1/4 cup sugar and stir to
  dissolve. Bring to a boil.
  
  While the cream is heating, place the eggs and the
  remaining 1/2 cup sugar in the bowl of an electric
  mixer fitted with a paddle. Beat the eggs on medium
  for 2 to 2 1/2 minutes. Scrape down the bowl, then
  beat on medium until slightly thickened and
  lemon-colored, 2 1/2 to 3 minutes. (At this point, the
  cream should be boiling. If not, adjust mixer speed to
  low and continue to mix until the cream boils. If this
  is not done, the eggs will develop undesirable lumps.)
  
  Directions continue >>>
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Dipped Hokey Pokey Cookies * Part 1
 Categories: Cookies, Chocolate
      Yield: 8 servings
 
-------------------KAREN PHILLIPS CBTX40A------------------------
    1/2 c  Sliced almonds
    1/4 t  Salt
    1/4 c  Granulated sugar
    1/4 t  Pure almond extract
      2 T  All-purpose flour
      3 oz Semi-sweet chocolate;
           -chopped into 1/4" pcs
      1    Egg white
      1 t  Unsalted butter; melted
 
  EQUIPMENT: Measuring cup, measuring spoons, small
  nonstick saute pan, baking sheet, stainless steel
  bowl, rubber spatula, parchment paper, cake spatula,
  pizza cutter, double boiler, instant-read test
  thermometer.
  
  Preheat the oven to 325 degrees. Toast the almonds on
  a baking sheet in a preheated oven until golden brown,
  about 8 minutes, then remove from the oven and cool.
  Do not turn off the oven.
  
  Combine the sugar, flour, egg white, butter, salt, and
  almond extract in a stainless steel bowl. Stir the
  mixture until smooth. Gently fold in the almonds until
  coated with the batter. Hold the batter at room
  temperature for 20 minutes before using, stirring
  occasionally. This is done in order to dissolve the
  sugar. If this step is bypassed, the cookies will not
  have the desired taste and texture.
  
  Trace 2  6-inch circles onto a piece of parchment
  paper (cut to fit a baking sheet). Place the parchment
  paper, trace marks down, on a baking sheet. Evenly
  divide the batter between the circles.
  
  Directions continue >>>
 

 

 
      Title: Double Mocha Madness (recipe for Caramel Rum I
 Categories: Ice cream, Desserts, Chocolate
      Yield: 6 servings
 
-------------------KAREN PHILLIPS CBTX40A------------------------

---------------------HAZELNUT PRALINES--------------------------
    1/4 c  Hazelnuts
    1/2 c  Granulated sugar
    1/4 t  Lemon juice

-------------------DOUBLE MOCHA ICE CREAM------------------------
      8 oz Semi-sweet chocolate;
           -broken into 1/2 oz pcs
      2 oz Unsweetened chocolate;
           -broken into 1/2 oz pc
    1/4 c  Brewed coffee; full strength
      2 T  Instant espresso powder
      2 c  Heavy cream
      1 c  Half-and-half
      1 c  Granulated sugar
      5    Egg yolks
 
  EQUIPMENT: 2 baking sheets with sides, 2 large
  100%-cotton towels, food processor with metal blade, 2
  2 1/2-qt saucepans, metal spoon, 2 2-quart plastic
  containers with lids, double boiler, electric mixer
  fitted with a paddle, rubber spatula, 2 stainless
  steel bowls (1 large), instant-read test thermometer,
  ice-cream freezer
  
  Preheat the oven to 325 degrees. Toast and skin the
  hazelnuts, then allow the nuts to cool to room
  temperature. In the bowl of a food processor fitted
  with a metal blade, chop the hazelnuts into pieces 1/8
  inch in size. Spread the chopped hazelnuts onto a
  baking sheet with sides.
  
  Combine 1/2 cup granulated sugar and the lemon juice
  in a 2 1/2-qt saucepan. Stir with a whisk to combine
  (the sugar will resemble moist sand). Caramelize the
  sugar for 4 1/2 to 5 minutes over medium-high heat,
  stirring constantly with a whisk to break up any lumps
  (the sugar will first turn clear as it liquefies, then
  light brown as it caramelizes). Pour the caramelized
  sugar over the chopped hazelnuts. Stir the mixture
  with a spoon, then spread it into an uneven mass,
  about 4 to 5 inches in diameter. Allow the pralines to
  cool to room temperature. Break the pralines into
  uneven pieces, then place in the bowl of a food
  processor fitted with a metal blade. Chop the pralines
  into 1/8-inch pieces. Transfer the chopped pralines to
  a plastic container with a lid. Freeze until needed.
  Makes 1 1/2 quarts
  
  Directions Continued >>>
 

 

 
      Title:  PEANUT BUTTER CHOCOLATE BARS
 Categories: Desserts, Cookies
      Yield: 12 servings
 
    1/2 c  Margarine, softened
    1/3 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Cornmeal
    1/2 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Almonds, chopped
    1/2 c  Peanut butter
    1/4 c  Semi-sweet chocolate chips
      1 ts Shortening
 
   Heat oven to 375 degrees.
   Beat margarine and sugar until fluffy. Stir in
  cornmeal and flour. Add almonds.
   Press evenly onto bottom of an ungreased 9x9-inch
  baking pan. Bake 25 to 30 minutes, or until the edges
  are light golden brown. Cool about 10 minutes; spread
  with peanut butter.
  
   Melt chocolate chips and shortening over low heat, or
  in microwave. Drizzle over peanut butter.
   Cut into bars.   Makes 1 dozen.
 

 

 
      Title:  MARBLED PUMPKIN CHEESECAKE
 Categories: Desserts, Cheesecakes, Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
  1 1/4 c  Graham Cracker crumbs
      2 tb Granulated sugar
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine, melted
      2 c  Semi-sweet Chocolate
           -mini-morsels, divided.

-------------------------CHEESECAKE------------------------------
      3 pk Cream Cheese, (8 ozs. each)
           -softened
      1 c  Granulated sugar
    1/4 c  Light brown sugar, packed
  1 3/4 c  Pumpkin, solid pack
           -(16 0z. can)
      4 lg Eggs
    1/2 c  Evaporated Milk, undiluted
    1/4 c  Cornstarch
    3/4 ts Cinnamon
    1/8 ts Nutmeg
 
  FOR CRUST: In medium bowl, combine graham cracker
  crumbs, sugar and butter. Press onto bottom of greased
  10-inch springform pan; sprinkle with 1 cup chocolate
  morsels.
  
  FOR CHEESECAKE: In small, heavy saucepan over low
  heat, melt remaining morsels, stirring constantly
  until smooth. In large mixer bowl, beat cream cheese,
  granulated sugar and brown sugar. Beat in pumpkin.
  Beat in eggs and evaporated milk. Beat in cornstarch,
  cinnamon and nutmeg.
  
   Remove 1 cup pumpkin batter; stir into melted
  chocolate. Pour remainder of pumpkin batter into
  springform pan. Pour chocolate mixture over top; swirl.
   Bake in preheated 325 degree oven for 60 minutes,or
  until edge of filling is set. Turn oven off; allow
  cheesecake to stand in oven for 30 minutes, Remove
  from oven; cool completely. Cover; chill for several
  hours.
 

 

 
      Title: Tropical Double Fudge Cake
 Categories: Box cakes, Chocolate, Fruits, Cakes
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 pk Devil's food cake
      1 sm Instant vanilla pudding
    1/2 c  Light sour cream
    1/2 c  Semi-sweet chocolate chips;
           - melted
    1/4 c  Raspberries; pureed

---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
    1/2 c  Mango; chopped
    1/2 c  Raspberries
           Powdered sugar
           Kiwis; sliced
 
  Make the batter for the devil's food cake as directed
  and mix in the melted chocolate, light sour cream,
  vanilla pudding, pureed raspberries. Bake as directed.
  Sauce: Cook the mango and raspberries until smooth
  with sugar to taste (you can puree them). Garnish with
  kiwis.
 

 

 
      Title: Zabaglione Cake Frosting *
 Categories: Chocolate, Italian, Frostings
      Yield: 1 servings
 
----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
  2 1/2 oz Unsweetened chocolate
    1/4 c  Unsalted butter; room temp
    1/2 ts Vanilla
           Strawberries; garnish
 
  For frosting: Heat cream and sugar in heavy small
  saucepan until sugar dissolves, swirling pan
  occasionally. Bring to boil, stirring constantly.
  Reduce heat and simmer very gently until thick and
  syrupy, adjusting heat so liquid is barely shaking,
  about 10 minutes. Remove from heat. Add chocolate and
  stir until smooth. Stir in butter and vanilla. Chill
  until spreadable. Spread top and sides of cake with
  frosting. Refrigerate overnight. Bring to room
  temperature before serving. Garnish with strawberries.
 

 

 
      Title: Blender Double Fudge Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Nuts, Cakes
      Yield: 10 servings
 
    1/4 c  Nuts
      1    Egg
      3 tb Shortening
      1 c  Milk
      3 oz Unsweetened chocolate;
           - Premelted envelopes
    1/2 ts Vanilla
  1 1/4 c  Flour
  1 1/3 c  Sugar
  1 1/4 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Soda
    1/2 c  Semisweet chocolate pieces
 
  Heat oven to 350~. Grease and flour baking pan,
  9x9x2". Measure nuts into blender; chop on low speed.
  Set nuts aside. In order listed, measure remaining
  ingredients except chocolate pieces into blender.
  Blend 30 seconds on high speed, stopping blender
  occasionally to scrape sides with rubber spatula.
  (Batter may be slightly lumpy). Pour batter into pan.
  Bake about 35 minutes or until wooden pick inserted in
  center comes out clean. Immediately sprinkle chocolate
  pieces over cake. Place baking sheet over pan so
  contained heat will soften chocolate pieces. Spread
  softened chocolate evenly over cake; sprinkle with
  reserved nuts. Serve warm.
   *To prepare cake with electric mixer, measure all
  ingredients except nuts and chocolate pieces into
  large mixer bowl. Blend 1/2 minute on low speed,
  scraping bowl constantly. Beat 3 minutes high speed,
  scraping bowl occasionally. Bake as directed.
   **If using self-rising flour, omit baking powder and
  salt.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolately Chocolate Chip Cake *
 Categories: Chocolate, Cheese, Nuts, Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      8 oz Cream cheese; softened
    1/3 c  Sugar
      1    Egg
  1 1/2 c  Flour
      1 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Cocoa; Dutch
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Water; cold
    1/3 c  Oil
      1 tb White -OR- cider vinegar
      1 ts Vanilla
      6 oz Chocolate chips
    1/2 c  Walnuts; finely chopped
 
  Beat cream cheese until fluffy. Gradually beat in
  sugar. Add egg. Blend until smooth. Stir in flour,
  sugar, cocoa, baking soda and salt. Beat together
  water, oil, vinegar and vanilla. Gradually add flour
  to flour mixture, blending well. Turn into a greased
  9" square baking pan. Drop cream cheese mixture by
  spoonfuls over batter. Sprinkle with chocolate pieces
  and walnuts. Bake at 350~ for 30-50 minutes until cake
  tester comes out clean and top springs back when
  touched. Cool on wire rack. To serve, cut into squares
  from pan.
 

 

 
      Title: Colorado Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Microwave, Cakes
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 c  Sugar
  1 1/4 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/8 ts Salt
      1 oz Unsweetened chocolate square
      2 ts Butter
    1/4 c  Milk
      1 ts Vanilla

--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
    1/2 c  White sugar
      4 tb Cocoa
      1 c  Cold coffee
 
  Sift dry ingredients together in a bowl. Melt
  chocolate and butter in a 9x9 dish and heat in
  microwave oven at FULL POWER 1 minute. Add dry
  ingredients alternately with milk to the
  chocolate-butter mixture, mixing all by hand. Add
  vanilla. Spread in 9" square pan. Scatter topping
  ingredients on top of batter in order given. Microwave
  at FULL POWER 4-5 minutes. Let stand 10 minutes. Makes
  1 cake. Microwave time: 4-5 minutes. Conventional
  range time: 30 minutes at 350~.
 

 

 
      Title: Screwball Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Frostings, Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      3 c  Flour
      2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Cocoa
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Soda
    2/3 c  Oil
      2 tb Vinegar
      2 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Water-boiling

--------------------------FROSTING-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Shortening
      2 c  Sugar
      3 oz Chocolate unsweetened
    2/3 c  Milk
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Vanilla
 
  Sift the dry ingredients together and put in a greased
  9 x 13 pan. Scoup out 3 holes, 1 for each liquid
  ingredient. Pour boiling water over all and mix well.
  Bake at 375~ for 25-30 minutes. Frost with fudge
  frosting, made from last 6 ingredients. Heat to
  rolling boil all but the vanilla. Boil 1 min without
  stirring. Place pan in ice and water and beat until
  smooth and spreadable.
 

 

 
      Title: Coconut Topped Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Box cakes, Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      1 pk German chocolate cake mix
      4    Snickers candy bars;
           - finely chopped
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Flaked coconut
 
  Grease and flour a 13x9 baking pan. Prepare cake mix
  according to package directions. Pour into prepared
  baking pan. Bake as directed. In a small saucepan,
  combine chopped candy and butter. Melt over low heat,
  stirring until smooth. Remove baked cake from oven and
  immediately spread chocolate mixture over top.
  Sprinkle with coconut. Cool.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Chip Cake #2
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 tb Cinnamon
      1 c  Walnuts; chopped
    3/4 c  Chocolate chips
    1/2 c  Sugar
      4    Eggs
      1 pt Sour cream
      2 c  Brown sugar
  1 1/2 c  Salad oil
      1 ts Vanilla
      3 c  Graham crackers; crushed
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Baking soda
 
  Combine cinnamon, walnuts, chips and white sugar; set
  aside. Blend eggs, sour cream, brown sugar and salad
  oil until creamy; add vanilla. Combine cracker crumbs,
  baking powder and soda; stir into batter. Pour half
  the batter into an oiled 13x9" baking pan. Sprinkle
  batter with half the cinnamon/sugar mix. Pour rest of
  batter in pan. Sprinkle top with remaining
  cinnamon/sugar mix. Bake at 350~ for 45 minutes.
 

 

 
      Title: Turtle Cake
 Categories: Box cakes, Nuts, Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk German chocolate cake mix
     14 oz Caramels
    3/4 c  Margarine or butter
    1/2 c  Evaporated milk
      1 c  Semi sweet chocolate chips
      1 c  Pecans; chopped
 
  Preheat oven to 350~. Grease and flour 9x13 baking
  dish. Prepare cake according to package directions.
  Pour half of the cake mix into prepared dish and bake
  for 15 minutes. In a small saucepan over low heat,
  melt caramels with butter and evaporated milk. Remove
  cake from oven, pour melted caramel mix over top of
  cake. Top with chocolate chips and pecans. Pour rest
  of batter over all and bake 20 minutes longer.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocodeath Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 8 servings
 
------------------------CAKE BATTER-----------------------------
      2 c  Cake flour
      2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine
      2 c  Granulated sugar
      3    Large eggs
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
      3 oz Unsweetened chocolate
      1 c  Dairy sour cream
      1 c  Water; boiling

--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine
     12 oz Caramels
      1 cn Sweetened condensed milk
 
  Preheat oven to 350~. Grease and flour a 9x13 pan. Set
  aside. Sift together cake flour, baking soda and salt.
  Set aside. Beat butter and sugar together in a large
  mixing bowl. Blend in the eggs and beat until light
  and fluffy. Stir in vanilla and melted chocolate.
  Alternately, add the dry ingredients and the sour
  cream to the butter mixture. Beat well after each
  addition. Stir in the boiling water. (Batter will be
  thin.) Divide cake batter in half. Pour one half into
  prepared cake pan. Bake 10-12 minutes or until firm to
  touch. Remove from oven. Meanwhile, prepare filling.
  Mix the butter, caramels and sweetened condensed milk
  in a sauce pan and melt over low heat, stirring often.
  Can be melted in the microwave. When melted, pour the
  mixture over the half baked cake. Pour the remaining
  cake batter over the caramel mixture and return to the
  oven. Bake for 15-20 minutes or until firm to the
  touch. (It took me 25 minutes) Cool and frost or serve
  with whipped cream or a la mode.
 

 

 
      Title: Fudgy Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      8 oz Bittersweet chocolate
    1/2 lb Butter
    1/2 c  Coffee; very strong
      1 c  Sugar
      4    Eggs
 
  Prepare a 9" cake pan with a circle of buttered
  parchment paper. Wrap the outside of the pan in foil
  to prevent batter seepage. Preheat oven to 300~. Melt
  together the chocolate, butter and coffee. Either melt
  in the microwave or slowly over hot water in double
  boiler. When smooth and shiny, add sugar and mix well.
  Wisk in the eggs, one at a time until completely
  blended. Pour batter into prepared pan and place in
  the center of the preheated oven. Bake 1 hour and 15
  minutes. The top will be covered with a crust, but the
  center will be soft and appear undone. Cool in pan to
  room temp, then refrigerate in pan overnight or
  longer. Cake will solidfy into solid fudgelike
  consistency. To remove from pan, loosen edges of pan
  and invert on plate. Reinvert on another plate. Press
  back any loosened pieces. To serve, sprinkle with
  powdered sugar or cover with whipped cream and
  chocolate curls. If you like, spread with raspberry
  jam before covering with whipped cream. There is NO
  FLOUR in this cake!!
 

 

 
      Title: Orange Chocolate Crunch
 Categories: Chocolate, Fruits, Cakes
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Orange sections; about 6
           - oranges
    1/2 c  Orange juice
      2    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/4 ts Almond extract
  1 2/3 c  Flour
      1 c  Sugar
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
      1 c  Walnuts; chopped
      6 oz Semi sweet chocolate chips
 
  Preheat oven to 350~. Peel and section oranges. Cut
  sections into small pieces. Combine the orange pieces
  and orange juice. Beat eggs and add oranges, vanilla
  and almond extract. Mix well. Sift dry ingredients
  together and add all at once. Pour into a greased and
  floured 9x13 pan. Combine the brown sugar, chocolate
  chips and nuts. Sprinkle on top of cake. Bake at 350~
  for 45-50 minutes.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Oatrage Snack Cake
 Categories: Microwave, Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 c  Butter or margarine; soft
  1 1/2 c  Oatmeal; quick -OR-
           - Old fashioned, uncooked
    1/2 c  All-purpose flour
      1 c  Brown sugar; firmly packed
      2    Eggs
      1 c  Walnuts; chopped
      1 ts Vanilla
     12 oz Semi-sweet chocolate chips:
           - divided
 
  In large mixer bowl, mix butter, oats, flour, brown
  sugar, eggs, walnuts and vanilla. Beat 3 minutes at
  medium speed or until mixture is light and fluffy.
  Stir in 1 cup chocolate chips. Spread batter into 8"
  square microwave-safe baking dish; cover with wax
  paper. Cook on HIGH power 4 minutes; rotate dish 1/4
  turn. Cook on HIGH power 4-5 minutes longer or until
  top of cakeappears dry and bottom is an even color.
  Sprinkle remaining 1 cup chocolate chips over top of
  warm cake. Let stand 10 minutes, then spread chocolate
  evenly over cake. Cool directly on counter top. Cut
  into serving pieces.
 

 

 
      Title: Carmel Fudge Cake
 Categories: Box cakes, Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk Chocolate cake mix
     14 oz Carmels; unwrapped
    1/2 c  Margarine or butter
      1 cn Sweetened condensed milk
      1 c  Pecans; coarsely chopped
 
  Preheat oven to 350~F. Prepare cake mix as package
  directs. Pour 2 cups batter into greased 13x9" baking
  pan; bake 15 minutes. Meanwhile, in heavy saucepan,
  over low heat, melt carmels and margarine with
  sweetened condensed milk, stirring until smooth.
  Spread evenly over cake; spread remaining batter over
  carmel mixture. Top with nuts. Return to oven; bake
  30-35 minutes longer or unitl cake springs back when
  lightly touched. Cool. Garnish as desired.
 

 

 
      Title: Butter Cream Banded Fudge Cake *
 Categories: Cheese, Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 16 servings
 
----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------

------------------------BUTTER CREAM-----------------------------
      8 oz Cream cheese; softened
      1    Egg
    1/4 c  Sugar
      3 tb Milk
      2 tb Butter; softened
      1 tb Cornstarch
      1 ts Vanilla extract

----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
      4 oz Unsweetened chocolate squar
    1/2 c  Butter; softened
      2 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs
      2 c  All-purpose flour
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Baking soda
  1 1/3 c  Milk
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla extract

--------------------------FROSTING-------------------------------
      2 oz Unsweetened chocolate squar
    1/4 c  Butter
  3 3/4 c  Powdered sugar; sifted
    1/2 c  Milk
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla extract
 
   Butter cream: Combine cream cheese, egg, and sugar in
  a medium mixing bowl; beat on HI until smooth.
  Gradually add 2 tbsp of milk, the butter, constarch,
  and vanilla extract. Add another tbsp. of milk in
  needed to give smooth consistency. Set aside.
   Cake: Melt chocolate in top of double boiler and let
  cool. Cream butter and gradually add 2 cups of sugar,
  beating all the while. Add eggs, one at a time,
  beating after each addxition. Combine flour, baking
  powder, soda, and salt. Add to creamed mixture,
  alternating with the milk, beginning and ending with
  flour mixture. Mix each addition in well. Stir in
  melted chocolate and vanilla. Spread half of the
  chocolate batter into a greased and floured 13x9" pan.
  Spoon reserved butter cream mixture over the chocolate
  batter. Top with remaining chocolate batter. Bake at
  350~ until a wooden pick inserted in the center comes
  out clean. Let cool completely in pan on a wire rack.
   Frosting: Combine chocolate and butter in top of a
  double boiler. Bring water to a boil, reduce heat to
  low and cook and stir until chocolate and butter has
  melted. Remove from heat. Let cool. Add confectioner's
  sugar and half of the milk, beating at medium speed.
  Add the vanilla and additional milk as needed to bring
  to spreading consistency. Spread on cooled cake.
 

 

 
      Title: Butterfinger Cake *
 Categories: Box cakes, Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      1 pk German Chocolate Cake mix
      8 oz Butterscotch topping
           - for ice cream
      2 lg Butterfinger bars
      1 lg Cool Whip
      1 c  Pecans; chopped
 
  Bake cake in a 9x13 pan. While cake is still hot, pour
  butterscotch topping over cake, poking small holes in
  cake so that topping can soak in. Cool completely.
  Crush Butterfinger bars. Reserve 1/2 of one bar and
  mix the rest into a large carton of Cool Whip along
  with the pecans. Spread over cooled cake and top with
  reserved Butterfinger. Refrigerate until ready to
  serve.
 

 

 
      Title: Italian Love Cake
 Categories: Box cakes, Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 pk Fudge marble cake mix
      2 lb Ricotta cheese
      1 c  Sugar
      4    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla
      8 oz Whipping cream
      1 pk Instant chocolate pudding
      1 c  Milk
 
  Mix cake as directed on box. Pour into greased and
  floured 9 x 13 pan. In separate bowl, combine ricotta,
  sugar, eggs and vanilla; mix well. Spoon over top of
  unbaked cake. Bake at 350~F for 1 hr. Cool. Mix
  pudding with milk; fold in whipped topping. Spread
  over cake; regrigerate.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Heath Cake
 Categories: Box cakes, Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 pk Chocolate cake mix
     14 oz Sweetened condensed milk
      6 oz Heath Bits 'O Brickle
      4    Heath Candy bars (freeze)
      8 oz Cool Whip
 
  Bake cake as directed on box. As soon as cake comes
  out of the oven, punch holes in the top of the cake
  with a straw. Spread condensed milk on top. Sprinkle
  package of brickle chips on top of cake. Cool cake.
  Spread cool whip on top. Mash frozen Heath Bars (use a
  hammer) and spread on top of cake. Keep refrigerated.
 

 

 
      Title: Creme De Menthe Cake *
 Categories: Box cakes, Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      1 pk Chocolate chip cake mix
      3 tb Creme De Menthe
      1 cn Chocolate icing (16oz)

--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
     12 oz Cool Whip
      3 tb Creme De Menthe
 
  Mix cake according to package directions and add the
  Creme De Menthe. Pour into a greased and floured 9x13"
  pan. Bake at 350~ for 30-35 minutes. Frost cake with
  canned frosting. Refrigerate 10 minutes. Mix Cool Whip
  and 3 T. Creme De Menthe and spread over icing. May
  decorate with shaved chocolate bar.
 

 

 
      Title: Earthquake Cake
 Categories: Box cakes, Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 c  Coconut
      1 c  Pecans; chopped
      8 oz Cream cheese; softened
      1 lb Powdered sugar
      1 pk German chocolate cake mix
    1/2 lb Butter; softened
 
  Heat oven to 350~. Grease and flour 9x13 pan. Mix cake
  mix according to package directions. Pour into pan.
  Spread coconut and nuts over cake. Mix butter, cream
  cheese and powdered sugar together. Drop teaspoons of
  this mixture over cake using all of it. Bake for 45
  minutes. Cake will set when cooled.
 

 

 
      Title: White Chocolate Raspberry Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Fruits, Cakes
      Yield: 10 servings
 
    1/4 lb White chocolate
      6 tb Unsalted butter
      6    Eggs
      2 tb Sugar
    1/4 c  All-purpose flour
      2 pt Raspberries
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 325~F. Melt the chocolate in the top
  of a double boiler. Cut the butter into tablespoon
  pieces, place in the bowl of a mixer and mix until
  smooth. Slowly add the melted chocolate until
  incorporated. Add the eggs, one at a time, as each one
  is absorbed. Add the sugar, then the flour. Lightly
  grease a 9x11" baking pan. Pour in the batter and
  smooth the top. Place in the oven and bake for 25-30
  minutes. When the cake is cooked, remove from the oven
  and let cool before removing from the baking pan. To
  serve, cut the cake into individual portions and top
  with fresh raspberries. Accompany with whipped cream
  or raspberry sauce, if desired.
 

 

 
      Title: Narsai's Chocolate Decadence Cake *
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
     16 oz Ghirardelli Bittersweet
           - chocolate
     10 tb Unsalted butter
      1 tb Flour
      4    Eggs
      1 tb Sugar
           Sweetened whipped cream
           Raspberry sauce
 
  Heat oven to 425~. Reserve 1/2 oz of chocolate for
  cake decoration. In heavy saucepan on low heat, melt
  broken chocolate with butter, stirring constantly; set
  aside. In top of double boiler, beat eggs with sugar
  until mixture is lukewarm and sugar is dissolved. (Do
  not overcook.) Remove from heat and beat until
  quadrupled and very thick. Blend flour into egg
  mixture; fold into chocolate mixture, a little at a
  time. Spread into buttered and waxed paper lined 8"
  cake pan. Bake at 425~ for no longer than 15 minutes.
  (Center of cake will be soft.) Cool. Freeze cake
  overnight before removing from pan. Unmold. Cover with
  sweetened whipped cream, if desired. Decorate with
  shaved chocolate. Refrigerate until serving time.
  Serve with raspberry sauce, if desired.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Mallow Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate, Microwave, Frostings
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    2/3 c  All purpose flour
    2/3 c  Sugar
    3/4 ts Soda
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Vanilla
    1/4 c  Shortening
      2    Eggs
      1 oz Unsweetened chocolate; melt
      2 tb Water
    1/2 c  Sour cream
     12    Marshallows; cut in half

--------------------------FROSTING-------------------------------
      1 oz Unsweetened chocolate sq
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      3 tb Milk
      2 c  Confectioners sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla
    1/8 ts Salt
 
  Place all ingredients, except marshmallows in mixing
  bowl. Blend at lowest speed, then beat at medium speed
  2 min. Spread batter in 10 x 6 in baking dish.
  Microwave at 50% (Medium) 6 minutes. Rotate 1/4 turn
  every 3 min. Increase power to high. Microwave 2-5
  minutes until done. Let stand directly on countertop
  5-10 minutes. Place marshmallows, cut side down and
  close together on cake after it has stood 3-4 minutes.
  Cool cake and frost with Chocolate Frosting. Cut
  between marshmallws. Cake slices more easily if
  allowed stand several hours after frosting. Frosting:
  In small mixing bowl, combine chociolate, butter and
  milk. Microwave at 50% (Med.) 3-4 minutes or until
  chocolate is soft and mixture is thick, stirring after
  half the time. Stir in remaining ingredients. Let
  stand 5-10 minutes. Beat until smooth and of spreading
  consistancy, 1-3 minutes. Frosts tops of 2 layers or
  24 cupcakes
 

 

 
      Title: Easy White Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Box cakes, Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 pk White cake mix w/ pudding
      4    Egg whites
  1 1/4 c  Water
      1 c  White chocolate; melted
 
  Mix first 3 ingredients as usual. Measure chocolate
  and then melt. Add to cake batter. Then follow
  directions on cake box as usual. This is great with
  raspberry filling.
 

 

 
      Title: German Chocolate Upside Down Cake
 Categories: Box cakes, Chocolate, Cheese, Nuts, Cakes
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Pecans; chopped
      1 c  Coconut
      1 pk German Chocolate cake mix
      1 lb Powdered sugar; sifted
      8 oz Cream cheese; softened
    1/2 c  Margarine; softened
 
  Grease and flour 9x13 cake pan. Put coconut and pecans
  in bottom of pan. Mix cake mix according to directions
  on box. Pour over nuts and coconut. Mix cream cheese,
  butter and sugar; drop by spoonfuls on top of cake.
  Bake at 350~ for 45 minutes or until done.
 

 

 
      Title: Snickers Cake
 Categories: Box cakes, Chocolate, Nuts, Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 pk German chocolate cake mix
      1 pk Caramels (small pack)
    1/2 c  Butter
    1/3 c  Milk
      6 oz Chocolate chips
      1 c  Nuts; chopped
 
  Mix cake mix as directed. Pour half of the batter into
  a greased 9x13 pan. Bake in preheated 350~ oven for
  15-20 minutes. Melt caramels, butter and milk
  together. Pour over baked mixture. Sprinkle chocolate
  chips and nuts over caramel mixture. Pour remaining
  cake batter over top of all and bake 20 minutes at
  250~ then 10 minutes at 350~.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Crumb Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 c  All purpose flour
      1 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Butter
      1    Egg
    3/4 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Hershey's Chocolate Syrup
 
  Heat oven to 350~F. Grease 9" square baking pan. In
  large mixer bowl, stir flour and sugar together.
  Remove 1/2 cup of mixture. Set aside. Stir baking
  soda, baking powder and salt into remaining flour. Add
  butter, egg, milk and chocolate syrup. Beat until well
  blended. Pour into prepared pan. Sprinkle reserved
  flour mixture over top. Bake 30-35 minutes or until
  done. Serve warm or at room temperature.
 

 

 
      Title: Fudge Nut Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 10 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter
      2 c  Cake flour; sifted
      1 ts Baking soda
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    3/4 ts Salt
      1 c  + 2T milk
      2    Eggs; unbeaten
      3 oz Unsweet chocolate sq; melted
      1 c  Nuts; coarsely chopped
 
  In mixer bowl, cream butter at medium speed. At low
  speed, blend in flour, soda, salt and sugar, which
  have been sifted together. Add 3/4 cup milk. Beat 2
  minutes at medium speed. Add eggs, melted chocolate
  and remaining milk; blend. Scrape bowl frequently.
  Beat 1 minute at medium speed. At low speed, add nuts
  and blend well. Turn batter into greased 9 x 13 pan.
  Bake at 350~ for 45 minutes or until done. Cake may
  also be baked in 2, 9" pans at 375~ for 25 minutes or
  until done. Omit nuts.
   NOTE: Cocoa may be substituted for chocolate. Sift
  2/3 cup cocoa with dry ingredients.
 

 

 
      Title: Great Chocolate Cake (& Strawberry Shortcake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate, Fruits
      Yield: 12 servings
 
-------------------------BASIC CAKE------------------------------
      1 c  Unsweetened Cocoa
      2 c  Boiling water
      1 c  Melted butter
  2 1/2 c  Sugar
      4    Eggs
      2 ts Vanilla
  2 1/3 c  Unsifted cake flour
      2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt

-----------------STRAWBERRY COCOA SHORTCAKE----------------------
      1 c  Heavy whipping cream
      2 tb Powdered sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla
           Strawberries for garnish
      2 oz Semi-Sweet Chocolate
 
  Mix cocoa with boiling water, stirring with wire whip
  until smooth. Cool in refrigerator while preparing
  other ingredients. In large mixer bowl, beat butter
  with sugar, eggs, and vanilla on high speed 5 minutes.
  Sift flour with baking soda, baking powder and salt.
  On low speed, add dry ingredients alternately with
  cocoa and liquid, starting and ending with flour. (Do
  not overbeat.) Divide batter into 2 round pans (9 x 1
  1/2") lined with buttered waxed paper. Bake at 350~
  for 30-35 minutes or until cake tests dry with a
  toothpick. Cool in pans for 10 minutes; remove cake
  and cool on racks. Use 1 layer of cake for Great
  Strawberry Chocolate Shortcake dessert. The second
  layer may be frozen for other great chocolate
  desserts- or the 2 layers may be frosted together. For
  shortcake: Whip cream with powdered sugar and vanilla.
  Spread over top of 1 layer of cake. Arrange fresh
  strawberries on top. Melt chocolate and drizzle over
  berries. Chill to firm chocolate. Makes 8 servings.
 

 

 
      Title: One Bowl Devil Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 c  Sifted cake flour
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Cream of tartar
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Shortening
  1 1/2 c  Buttermilk
      3    Eggs
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
      4 oz Unsweetened Chocolate, melte
 
  Sift cake flour, sugar, soda, cream of tartar and salt
  into large mixer bowl. Add shortening, half the
  buttermilk, eggs and vanilla. Beat on medium speed for
  2 minutes. Mix in remaining buttermilk and melted
  chocolate. Beat additional 2 minutes. Spread into
  9x13" greased cake pan. Bake at 350~ for 40-50
  minutes. Cool in pan.
 

 

 
      Title: Better Than Sex Cake #3
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 pk German chocolate cake
      2    Heath bars; crushed
      1 c  Sweetened condensed milk
      1 c  Butterscotch ice cream toppi
           Whipped cream or topping
 
  Either bake german chocolate cake according to
  directions on german sweet chocolate package or from a
  mix. Bake in a 9x13" pan. Cool 5-10 minutes. Then,
  using the end of a wooden spoon, poke holes in the
  cake every 1/2 to 1 inch. Cool another 20 minutes.
  Drizzle sweetened condensed milk and butterscotch
  topping into hole (some will end up on top of the
  cake). Sprinkle crushed heath bars over the top. Serve
  with whipped cream or topping.
 

 

 
      Title: Heath Bar Cake
 Categories: Box cakes, Cakes
      Yield: 15 servings
 
      1 pk Chocolate fudge cake mix
      1 cn Sweetened condensed milk
      1    Jar caramel ice cream toppin
     12 oz Cool Whip
      4    Heath bars; crushed *
 
  * eaisier to crush if frozen
  *****************************
  Prepare cake according to directions. Bake in 9x13"
  pan. While still hot, poke the top full of holes with
  a wooden spoon handle. Pour condensed milk over the
  top, then ice cream topping. REFRIGERATE OVERNIGHT.
  Spread the Cool Whip over the top, then sprinkle with
  Heath bars.
 

 

 
      Title: German Ambrosia Cake
 Categories: Box cakes, Cakes
      Yield: 15 servings
 
      1 pk Coconut pecan frosting *
  1 1/2 c  Whipping cream
      1 pk German chocolate cake mix
    1/2 c  Orange marmalade
 
  * dry mix, not canned frosting
  *******************************
  Mix frosting packet from frosting mix with whipping
  cream in small mixer bowl (just to blend -will whip
  later) CHILL. Prepare and bake cake mix according to
  package directions using 13x9 prepared pan. Coolin pan
  for 10 minutes before removing to cool completely.
  Slice into 2 layers. Spread marmalade between layers.
  Beat whipping cream mixture until stiff. Fold in
  coconut-pecan packet. Spread over top and sides of
  cake. Chill until serving time.
 

 

 
      Title: Swiss Chocolate Dump Cake
 Categories: Box cakes, Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
     20 oz Crushed pineapple; undrain
      1 cn Cherry pie filling
      1 pk Deluxe Swiss Chocolate Cake
      1 c  Pecans; chopped
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine
 
  Preheat oven to 350~ F. Dump pineapple with juice into
  ungreased 13x9x2" pan. Spread evenly. Dump in pie
  filling. Spread evenly. Sprinkle cake mix evenly over
  cherry layer. Sprinkle pecans over cake mix. Dot with
  butter. Bake at 350~ F for 50-55 minutes or until set.
  serve warm or at room temperature TIP: To make the
  traditional Dump Cake recipe, substitute Duncan Hines
  Moist Deluxe Yellow Cake Mix for the Swiss Chocolate
  Cake Mix.
 

 

 
      Title: Irish Log
 Categories: Cakes, Holidays, Ethnic, Chocolate, Jellyroll
      Yield: 10 servings
 
    3/4 c  Sifted cake flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      5    Eggs
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Sugar
  2 1/2    Unsweetened chocolate
    1/4 c  Cold water
    1/4 ts Soda
      1 c  Confectioners sugar

--------------------------FROSTING-------------------------------
      1 pk Dream Whip
    1/2 c  Milk; cold
    1/2 ts Mint or peppermint flavoring
      2 ds Green food coloring
 
  Sift flour, baking powder and salt together. Beat eggs
  until thick and light; beat in 3/4 cup sugar
  gradually. Add flour mixture all at once; blend
  gently. Melt chocolate; stir in the water, soda and
  the remaining sugar until smooth. Add to the batter
  quickly. Pour into greased waxed paper-lined 15x10"
  jelly roll pan. Bake for 18 to 20 minutes at 350~.
  Invert the cake on a towel sprinkled with
  confectioners sugar; remove paper. Trim cake edges.
  Roll towel and cake; cool for 30 minutes. Beat Dream
  Whip with milk and mint flavoring until stiff peaks
  form; beat in food coloring. Unroll cake, discarding
  towel. Spread cake with Dream Whip. Roll cake again;
  frost with Dream Whip. Chill until ready to serve.
 

 

 
      Title: Ho-ho Cake *
 Categories: Box cakes, Chocolate, Jellyroll
      Yield: 24 servings
 
----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      1 pk Chocolate fudge cake mix

--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      5 tb Flour
  1 1/2 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Margarine
    1/2 c  Solid shortening
      1 c  Sugar

--------------------------FROSTING-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Margarine
      1    Egg
      3    Squares semi-sweet chocolate
      1 ts Vanilla
  2 1/2 tb Water; hot
  1 3/4 c  Confectioners sugar
 
  Mix cake as directed on box. Bake in a greased and
  floured jelly roll pan at 350~ for 15 minutes.
   FILLING: Cook flour and milk until thickened. Cool.
  Add sugar, margarine and shortening. Beat at high
  speed for 8-10 minutes. Spread on cake and chill well.
   FROSTING: Melt margarine and cool slightly. Add
  melted chocolate squares, vanilla, egg, water and
  confectioners' sugar. Beat by hand. Frost cake.
 

 

 
      Title: Newly-weds Chocolate Chip Roll
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate, Ice cream, Jellyroll
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4    Eggs; separated
        pn Salt
    1/2 c  Sugar; divided
    1/2 ts Vanilla
    1/4 c  Unsweetened cocoa
      1 ts Unsweetened cocoa
      2 tb Flour
      2 tb Cornstarch
           Confectioner's sugar
      1 qt Chocolate Chip Ice Cream
 
  Adjust oven rack to highest position. Preheat 375~.
  Grease a jelly roll pan 15 1/2x10 1/2, line with waxed
  paper,grease lightly. In a large mixer bowl, combine
  egg whites and salt, beat until foamy. Gradually beat
  in 1/4 cup sugar, and vanilla. Beat until stiff, but
  not dry. In small bowl, beat egg yolks and rest of
  sugar until very thick and lemon colored(5-10 minutes)
  Sift together 1/4 cup cocoa, flour and cornstarch.
  Fold into egg yolk mix, then flod mix into beaten
  whites,Pour in prepared pan, spread evenly. Bake 12-15
  minutes, until lightly browned and center is springy
  to the touch. Meanwhile, sprinkle a towel with
  confectioner's sugar. Invert cake onto towel, and peel
  off waxed paper. While still hot, roll up cake with
  twol, jelly roll fashion, from the long side. Let
  stand 1 minute, then unroll to let steam escape, then
  re-roll with towel. Cool compeltely on wire rack.
  Unroll, and spread with softened ice cream. Reroll,
  cover and freeze until firm. Sprinkle with 1 tsp cocoa
  just before serving.
 

 

 
      Title: German Chocolate "pig Out"
 Categories: Box cakes, Chocolate, Nuts, Desserts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 pk German chocolate cake mix
    2/3 c  Evaporated milk
    3/4 c  Margarine; melted
     16 oz Bag caramels
      1 c  Pecans; chopped
      8 oz Chocolate chips
 
  Combine cake mix, 1/3 cup evaporated milk and melted
  margarine. Spread half of mixture in bottom of 9 x 13"
  cake pan. Bake 5 minutes at 350~F. Heat the caramels
  and 1/3 cup evaporated milk until melted. On the baked
  layer, spread the pecans and chocolate chips and the
  melted caramels and milk mixture. Top with the other
  half of cake batter. Bake 20 minutes at 350~F.
 

 

 
      Title: Amaretto Cream Filled Cake (zuccotto Ripieno
 Categories: Italian, Nuts, Alcohol, Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Sponge Cake
    1/2 c  Hazelnuts
    1/4 c  Amaretto
    1/4 c  Light rum
  1 1/3 c  Whipping cream
    1/3 c  Powdered sugar
    1/3 c  Almonds; blanched,
           - chopped, toasted
      1 oz Unsweetened chocolate;
           - grated
 
  Bake hazelnuts in ungreased baking pan at 400~ for 5
  minutes or until skins begin to crack. Wrap hazelnuts
  in clean towel. Let stand 2 minutes. Rub hazelnuts in
  towel to remove skins. Chop hazelnuts. Return to
  baking pan. Bake about 8 minutes until golden brown,
  stirring occasionally. Cool. Cut 4-inch circle from
  cake. Cut remaining cake into 1-inch pieces. Mix
  together amaretto and rum and sprinkle over cake. Line
  large bowl with waxed paper. Butter waxed paper. Place
  cake circle on bottom of bowl. Line side of bowl with
  three-fourths of the cake pieces. Beat together
  whipping cream and powdered sugar in chilled medium
  bowl until stiff. Fold in hazelnuts, almonds and
  chocolate. Spoon filling into cake-lined bowl. Place
  remaining cake pieces on filling. Cover and
  refrigerate 2 hours. Invert onto serving plate. Remove
  bowl and waxed paper. Sprinkle with additional grated
  chocolate if desired.
 

 

 
      Title: Confetti Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Mixes, Chocolate
      Yield: 12 servings
 
----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
      1 pk Deluxe yellow cake mix
      1 pk Vanilla instant pudding mix
      4    Eggs
      1 c  Water
    1/2 c  Crisco oil
      1 c  Semi-sweet mini choco chips

--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
      1 c  Colored mini-marshmallows
    2/3 c  Duncan Hines Chocolate
           - frosting
      2 tb Semi-sweet mini choco chips
 
  Preheat oven to 350~. Grease and flour 13x9" pan.
   FOR CAKE: combine cake mix, pudding mix, eggs, water
  and oil in large bowl. Beat at medium speed with
  electric mixer for 2 minutes. Stir in 1 cup miniature
  chocolate chips. Pour into pan. Bake at 350~ for 40-45
  minutes or until toothpick inserted in center comes
  out clean.
   FOR TOPPING: Immediately arrange marshmallows evenly
  over hot cake. Place frosting in microwave-safe bowl.
  microwave at HIGH for 25-30 seconds. Stir until
  smooth. Drizzle evenly over marshmallows and cake.
  Sprinkle with 2 tablespoons chocolate chips. Cool
  completely.
   TIP: For ease in cutting, use knife with thin, sharp
  blade. Clean knife with paper towl after each slice.
 

 

 
      Title: CHOCOLATE CHIP MINI MUFFINS
 Categories: Ww, Desserts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           -Joyce Burton -- PDPP83A
      1 c  + 2 Tb. All purpose flour
    1/3 c  Granulated sugar
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Skim milk
    1/4 c  Canola oil
    1/4 c  Egg substitute
  1 1/2 oz Mini semisweet chocolate
           -morsels
      1 tb Grated orange peel
 
  1.  Preheat oven to 400F.  Line 24 mini muffin cups
  with paper lines.
  
  2.  In large bowl, combine flour, sugar, baking powder
  and salt. Add milk, oil and egg substitute; stir just
  until combined. Stir in chocolate and orange peel; mix
  just until combined.
  
  3.  Spoon batter evenly into prepared cups, filling
  each about two-thirds full.  Bake 12-15 minutes, until
  golden and toothpick inserted in center comes out
  clean. Remove from pan; cool completely on rack.
  
  Each serving (2 mini muffins) provides: 1 FA, 1/2 B,
  50 C. Per serving: 127 cal, 2 g pro, 18 g car, 6 g
  fat: 1 g poly, 3 g mono, 1 g sat; 111 mg sod, 0 mg
  chol.
  
  Source:  "Weight Watchers" magazine, February 1993.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Snack Bar
 Categories: Ww, Desserts, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk Alba, chocolate
    3/4 oz Oats or Grape-Nuts
      2 tb Raisins
      1 tb Peanut butter
      2 tb Warm water
 
  Combine all ingredients and form into a bar.  Place in
  freezer until firm. 1M, 1B, 1P, 1Fr, 1Fa
 

 

 
      Title: FROZEN S'MORES
 Categories: Ww, Desserts
      Yield: 32 servings
 
           -Joyce Burton -- PDPP83A

--------------------------COMBINE-------------------------------
      1 pk Sugar-free instant chocolate
           -pudding (4 servings)
  1 1/2 c  Skim milk
    1/2 c  Peanut butter

-------------------ADDITIONAL INGREDIENTS------------------------
      1 lb Graham crackers
      8 oz Lite Cool Whip
 
  Combine pudding mix, skim milk and peanut butter.  On
  1/2 of graham crackers, spread 1 tablespoon pudding
  mixture. On other half spread Cool Whip.  Sandwich
  together and freeze.
  
  Each serving = 1 Bread, 1/4 Protein, 1/4 fat, 18 opt.
  cal.
 

 

 
      Title: MERINGUE KISSES
 Categories: Ww, Desserts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           -Joyce Burton - PDPP83A
      2    Egg whites; room temperature
    1/4 ts Cream of tartar
        pn Salt
    1/2 c  Granulated sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
      4 oz Semisweet chocolate chips
 
  1.  Preheat oven to 375 F.  Line baking sheet with
  parchment paper; set aside.
  2.  In medium bowl, with electric mixer on medium
  speed, beat egg whites until frothy; add cream of
  tartar and salt. Beat on high speed until stiff; beat
  in sugar 1 tablespoon at a time. Add vanilla; fold in
  chocolate chips.
  
  3.  Drop batter by heaping teaspoonfuls onto prepared
  baking sheet. Place in oven.  Turn oven off; leave
  cookies in oven 5 hours. Variation: Add food coloring
  for festive holiday touch: green for Christmas; pink
  and yellow for Easter, etc.
  
  Each serving (2 cookies) provides:  80 optional
  calories.
  
  Per serving:  80 calories, 1 g protein, 3 g fat, 15 g
  carbohydrate, 3 mg calcium, 20 mg sodium, 0 mg
  cholesterol, 0 g dietary fiber. Source: "Weight
  Watchers Favorite Homestyle Recipes."
 

 

 
      Title: CHOCOLATE CHIP COOKIE DOUGH CHEESECAKE
 Categories: Desserts, Cakes
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -Dorothy Cross TMPJ72B
  1 1/2 c  Finely crushed chocolate
           -wafer cookie crumbs
           -(about 30 cookies)
      1 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  (1/8 lb.) melted butter
           -or margarine
      2 pk (8 oz. each) cream
           -cheese or neufchatel;
           -cut into chunks
      1 c  Regular or light sour cream
      3    Large eggs
      1 t  Vanilla
           -COOKIE DOUGH
           -TOPPING (RECIPES FOLLOW)
 
     Mix crumbs, 2 T sugar, and butter; press firmly
  over bottom and 1/2-inch up sides of a 9-inch
  cheesecake pan with removable rim. Bake in a 350
  degree oven until slightly darker color, about 8
  minutes.
     In a food processor or with a mixer, whirl or beat
  remaining sugar with cheese. Add cream, eggs, and
  vanilla; mix well. Pour into crust. Drop cookie dough
  in 2- tablespoon portions evenly over cake; push dough
  beneath surface.
     Bake in 350 oven until cake jiggles only slightly
  in center when gently shaken, about 40 minutes. Spread
  topping over hot cake. Let cake cool, then chill until
  cold,
  
  at least 4 hours; serve or wrap airtight up to 2 days.
  Serves 12 to 16.
  COOKIE DOUGH: In a bowl, beat to blend 1/4 cup butter
  or margarine, 1/4 cup firmly packed brown sugar, and
  1/4 cup granulated sugar. Stir in 2 tablespoons water
  and 1 teaspoon vanilla. Beat in 1/2 cup all-purpose
  flour and 1 cup semisweet chocolate baking chips or
  chopped pieces.
  
  TOPPING: Mix 1 c regular or light (reduced-fat) sour
  cream, 2 teaspoons sugar, and 1 teaspoon vanilla.
  
  COMMENTS: Soft, creamy lumps of chocolate chip cookie
  dough, made without egg, are a tantalizing surprise in
  this smooth cheesecake. Its a dessert that indulges
  those addicted to nibbling cookies before they bake.
  
  Source: Sunset Magazine - ? month/1993
  
   Reformatted for Meal Master by: CYGNUS, HCPM52C &
  CMINEAH
 

 

 
      Title: Brownie Bottom Cheesecake
 Categories: Cheesecake, Dessert, Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
------------------IRWIN E.SOLOMON JJGF65A-----------------------

----------------------PHILLY.INQUIRER---------------------------

-------------------FOR THE BROWNIE BOTTOM------------------------
      8 tb Butter or margarine,1 stick
      4    Squares (1 oz.each)
           Unsweetened baking chocolate
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs
    1/4 c  Milk
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Salt

----------------------FOR THE TOPPING---------------------------
      3 pk Cream cheese,softened 8 oz.
           Each
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
      3    Eggs
    1/2 c  Sour cream
 
    Heat oven to 325 deg. Lightly grease and flour a 9"
  springform pan.Set aside.
    Prepare the cake: Melt butter and chocolate in 3 qt.
  heavy saucepan over low heat,stirring constantly;
  remove from heat and cool mixture to lukewarm.
    Add sugar and eggs,one at a time,mixing well after
  each addition.Blend in milk and vanilla.Stir in
  combined flour and salt,mixing just until blended.
    Spoon into prepared springform pan,spreading
  evenly.Bake 25 minutes.
    Remove cake from oven while you prepare the topping.
    Prepare the topping: Beat cream cheese and vanilla
  at medium speed with electric mixer until well
  blended.Add eggs,one at a time,mixing well after each
  addition.Blend in the sour cream;pour over brownie
  bottom (filling will almost come to top of pan).Bake
  55 to 60 minutes or until center is almost set.
    Run knife or metal spatula around rim of pan to
  loosen cake;cool before removing rim of
  pan.Refrigerate 4 hours or overnight.Let cake stand 30
  minutes at room temperature before serving.Makes 12
  servings...
 

 

 
      Title: DELUXE CHOCOLATE MARSHMALLOW BARS
 Categories: Desserts, Bars
      Yield: 36 servings
 
           -Dorothy Cross TMPJ72B
           -BARS:
    3/4 c  Butter or margarine
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      3    Eggs
      1 t  Vanilla extract
  1 1/3 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 t  Baking powder
    1/2 t  Salt
      3 T  Baking cocoa
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts, optional
      4 c  Miniature marshallows
           -TOPPING:
  1 1/3 c  (8 ozs) chocolate chips
      3 T  Butter or margarine
      1 c  Peanut butter
      2 c  Crisp rice cereal
 
  In a mixing bowl, cream butter and sugar. Add eggs and
  vanilla; beat until fluffy. Combine flour, baking
  powder, salt and cocoa; add to creamed mixture. Stir
  in nuts, if desired. Spread in a greased jelly roll
  pan. Bake at 350 degrees for 15-18 minutes. Sprinkle
  marshmallows evenly over cake; return to oven for 2-3
  minutes. Using a knife dipped in water, spread the
  melted marshmallows evenly over cake. Cool. For
  topping, combine chocolate chips, butter and peanut
  butter in a small saucepan. Cook over low heat,
  stirring constantly, until melted and well blended.
  Remove from heat; stir in cereal. Spread over bars.
  Chill. Yield: about 3 dozen.
  
  COMMENTS: This chocolaty layered bar recipe is a
  favorite at our house and one you might like to try as
  a quick and easy dessert.
  
  Source:  Taste of Home Magazine - Premier Edition, 1993
  
   Reformatted for Meal Master by: CYGNUS, HCPM52C &
  CMINEAH
 

 

 
      Title: BE MINE BUTTERMILK CAKE (1 of 2)
 Categories: Desserts, Cakes, Holidays
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -Dorothy Cross TMPJ72B
           -INGREDIENTS:
           -Truffle Cream:
      8 oz Bittersweet (not
           -unsweetened) or semisweet
           -chocolate, chopped
    1/3 c  Whipping cream
      2 T  Unsalted butter;
           -room temperature
    1/4 c  Chambord or other berry liqu
           -(such as creme de cassis)
           -Cake:
  1 3/4 c  All-purpose flour
      2 t  Baking powder
    1/2 t  Baking soda
    1/2 t  Salt
    3/4 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  (1 stick) unsalted butter;
           -room temperature
      4    Large egg yolks
      1 c  Buttermilk
           -Glaze:
      6 oz Bittersweet (not unsweetened
           -or semisweet chocolate; cho
    1/4 c  Unsalted butter; cut into
           -small pieces
    1/4 c  Light corn syrup
    1/4 c  Chambord or other berry liqu
           -Fresh raspberries or strawb
 
  Directions are in part 2 of this Recipe set.
   Reformatted by: CYGNUS, HCPM52C
 

 

 
      Title: MRS. FIELDS ICING *
 Categories: Frostings, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      8    Unsweetend chocolate
           - squares
      2 tb Butter
      2 lb Powdered sugar
      1 c  Whipped cream
      4 ts Vanilla
      6 oz Milk chocolate chips
      1 pk Hershey kisses
 
  Combine chocolate and butter in small saucepan. Place
  over low heat until melted. Remove from heat. Combine
  sugar, cream, and vanilla in medium size bowl. Stir
  till smooth. Add chocolate and butter. Set bowl in a
  pan of ice and beat with wooden spoon till frosting is
  thickened. After frosting bottom layer,add 1 cup of
  chips. Spread on top of of cake. Add second layer.
  Frost second layer. Apply kisses as desired over top
  of cake. Add remaining chips to the sides.
 

 

 
      Title: Mrs. Field's Chocolate Chip Cookies
 Categories: Cookies, Desserts
      Yield: 55 servings
 
--------------------CAROL MILTON STFM57B-------------------------
      1 c  Butter
      1 c  Brown sugar
      1 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs
      1 t  Vanilla
      2 c  Flour
  2 1/2 c  Oatmeal *
    1/2 t  Salt
      1 t  Baking soda
      1 t  Baking powder
     12 oz Chocolate chips
      8 oz Hershey bar; grated
  1 1/2 c  Nuts; pecans or walnuts
 
  Cream together butter and the 2 sugars.  Add the 4
  eggs and vanilla.  Mix together flour, oatmeal*, salt
  baking sada and baking powder.  Mix all ingredients
  together and add chocolate chips, hershey bar and
  chopped nuts.  Bake on ungreased cookie sheets
  (Cushion Aire-insulated the best so the cookies don't
  burn).  Make golf-ball size cookies,  spaced 2" apart.
  Bake at 375-degrees for 6 minutes.  Makes 112 cookies.
   * Oatmeal: put small amounts of oatmeal into blender
  on high until it turns to powder.  Measure first, then
  blend.
 

 

 
      Title: Mrs. Field's Creamy Peanut Butter Chocolate Bars
 Categories: Chocolate
      Yield: 24 servings
 
--------------------K GOUGASIAN PTWG60A-------------------------

---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
      8 md Butter cookies
    1/4 c  Salted butter; melted

----------------------CHOCOLATE LAYERS---------------------------
  2 1/2 c  Milk chocolate chips =15 oz

-------------------PEANUT BUTTER FILLING------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Creamy peanut butter
    1/2 c  Salted butter; softened
      3 c  Confectioners' sugar
      2 t  Pure vanilla extract
 
  *Crush cookies until finely ground. Add butter & mix.
  Press crumb mixture into bottom of 8x8 baking pan &
  bake 10 mins. at 325 F. Cool to room temperature.
  *Melt chocolate. Pour half into pan & smooth evenly
  over crust. Place pan in refrigerator. Keep remaining
  choc. warm. *Blend peanut butter & butter together
  until smooth using electric mixer. Slowly beat in
  confectioners' sugar & vanilla. Beat until smooth.
  Spread mixture over chilled chocolate layer. Pour
  remaining warm chocolate over top & spread smoothly.
  Chill in refrigerator one hour. Yields 24-36 bars.
 

 

 
      Title: Mrs. Field's Double-Rich Chocolate Cookies
 Categories: Cookies
      Yield: 48 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Flour
    1/2 t  Soda
    1/4 t  Salt
    1/2 c  Unsweetened cocoa powder
      1 c  Dark brown sugar, packed
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1 c  Butter, softened
      3 lg Eggs
      2 t  Vanilla
      2 c  Semisweet chocolate chips
 
  Preheat oven to 300*F.   In a medium bowl combine
  flour, soda, salt and cocoa powder. Mix well and set
  aside. In large bowl blend sugars with an electric
  mixer at medium speed. Add butter and beat to form a
  grainy paste. Scrape down sides of bowl, then add eggs
  and vanilla. Beat at medium speed until light and
  fluffy. Add the flour mixture and chocolate chips, and
  blend at low speed just until combined. Drop dough by
  rounded tablespoons onto ungreased baking sheets 1 1/2
  inches apart. Bake for 21-23 minutes. Immediately
  transfer cookies to a cool surface.
 

 

 
      Title: Mrs. Field's Almond Crunch Cookies
 Categories: Cookies
      Yield: 18 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter, softened
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1 lg Egg
    1/2 t  Almond extract
    1/4 c  Almonds (1 0z) ground in a
           Blender or food processor
      1 c  Almonds, sliced (4 oz)
      1 c  Flour
    1/4 c  Heavy cream
      1 c  Semisweet chocolate chips
      2 t  Lt corn syrup
 
    Preheat oven to 300d F.  In a medium bowl blend
  butter and sugar with an electric mixer until mixture
  forms a grainy paste. Scrape down sides of bowl, then
  add egg and almond extract. Beat at medium speed until
  light and fluffy.  Add the ground almonds and flour,
  and blend at low speed just until combined. Form dough
  into 1 1/2 in balls and roll in sliced almonds,
  coating each ball thoroughly.  Place balls on
  ungreased cookie sheets, 2 in apart.  Bake for 15-18
  minutes or until cookies are slightly brown along
  edges.  Immediately transfer cookies to a cool surface
  cover with waxed paper.
    TO MAKE CHOCOLATE GLAZE;  Scald cream in a small
  saucepan then remove from heat.  Stir in chocolate
  chips and corn syrup; cover and let stand for 15
  minutes. With small wire whisk or wooden spoon, gently
  mix glaze until smooth, being careful not to create
  bubbles in the chocolate.
    When cookies are completely cool, drizzle patterns
  on them with the warm chocolate glaze, or dip half of
  each cookies into the glaze. Refrigerate the cookies
  on waxed paper until the glaze has set--about 10
  minutes. Formatted by BXGT29B
 

 

 
      Title: A 1-2-3-4 Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Butter
      1 c  Milk
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
      3 c  Flour
      3 ts Baking powder
      4    Eggs
      2    Unsweetened chocolate
  1 1/2 c  Confectioners sugar
      1    Egg, beaten
      1 ts Vanilla
 
   ea CHOCOLATE ICING                   1/2 c  butter CAKE: Cream
  butter until fluffy.  Add sugar and cream well.  Add eggs one at a
  time. Beat well.  Sift flour, baking powder and salt together.  Add
  alternating with milk ending with flour.  Beat on low speed.  Add
  vanilla.
   Pour into greased, floured pans.  Makes three layers.  Bake at 350
  for 30 minutes.  Test for doneness.
  CHOCOLATE ICING:  Melt butter and chocolate in double boiler.  Remove
  from heat.  Blend sugar, egg, salt and vanilla into chocolate
  mixture.  Beat until icing is creamy.  Double for threelayers.
 

 

 
      Title: Afternoon Tea Cakes
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      3 tb Unsweetened cocoa powder
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 c  Hot water
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      3 tb Unsalted butter, melted
    1/3 c  Shredded coconut
      1 lg Egg
    1/2 c  Sour cream
           Glaze:
      1 tb Unsalted butter
      1 c  Sifted confectioner's sugar
      2 tb Water
    1/4 ts Ground cinnamon
    1/2 oz Unsweetened chocolate
      1 ts Vanilla extract
 
  The light and moist cupcakes have a delicate cinnamon-scented
  chocolate glaze that's spread over them while they are still warm.
  
  1. Position a rack in the center of the oven and preheat to 375
  degrees F. Line twelve 2 1/2-inch muffin cups with paper liners.
  
  2. Place cocoa in a small bowl and stir in 1/2 cup very hot tap water
  to dissolve.
  
  3. In a large bowl combine the melted butter and sugar; beat with an
  electric mixer until blended. Add the egg and beat until light, 1 to 2
  minutes. Add the cocoa mixture and beat until smooth. In a small bowl
  stir together the sour cream and baking soda. Stir this mixture into
  the butter-sugar mixture. Add the flour and vanilla; beat quickly,
  just until evenly blended. With a spoon stir in the coconut.
  
  Spoon the batter into the muffin cups, dividing it evenly among them;
  they will be about three-quarters full. Bake about 20 minutes, until
  the tops spring back when lightly touched and a toothpick inserted in
  the center comes out clean. Remove the tea cakes from the pan and
  cool slightly on a rack while you prepare the glaze.
  
  4. Spread about 2 teaspoons of the chocolate glaze on each of the
  warm tea cakes and let cool thoroughly.
  
  Chocolate Glaze:
  
  Makes 1/2 cup
  
  Drizzle this simple and tasty glaze over the afternoon tea cakes or
  over any cake that's been frosted with seven-minute caramel frosting.
  
  1. In a small saucepan combine the butter with 2 tablespoons water.
  Place over low heat, add the chocolate, and stir until the chocolate
  melts and the mixture thickens slightly; remove from the heat.
  
  2. In a small bowl combine the confectioner's sugar and cinnamon;
  stir in the chocolate mixture and the vanilla to make a smooth glaze.
  
  From: Jim Fobel's Old-Fashioned Baking Book.
 

 

 
      Title: Anco Chili Devil's Food Cupcakes with Roasted Macadamias
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 9 servings
 
------------------------FOR THE CAKE-----------------------------
  1 1/4 c  Cake Flour
    1/2 c  Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
      3 tb Ancho chili powder
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/4 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
    1/2 ts Salt
     10 tb Unsalted butter at room temp
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      3    Large eggs
    1/2 c  Buttermilk
    1/2 c  Hot dark coffee
      1 ts Pure vanilla extract

----------------------FOR THE TOPPING---------------------------
    1/2 c  Lightly rosasted Macadamias
           - whole or chopped (about
           - 2 oz.)
      4 oz Semisweet chocolate, chopped
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
 
  [Note:  Bobby Flay, chef of NYC's Mesa Grill, prepared this dessert
  for a Meals on Wheels benefit meal at the Frontera Grill in Chicago.
  Blended with the cocoa and coffee, the chili powder is only mildly
  hot and adds something approximating a fruit flavor.]
  
  1.  Heat oven to 375 degrees.  Butter a 9" square cake pan, line the
  bottom with parchment or waxed paper and butter the paper.  Measure
  out cake flour, cocoa, chili powder, baking soda, salt, baking
  powder, and cayenne.
   Sift them together 3 times. 2. Using an electric mixer with a large
  bowl, beat the butter and sugar together until light and fluffy. Beat
  in the eggs, one at a time, and continue beating until mixture is
  light, fluffy and almost tripled in volume. 3. Fold 1/3 dry mixture
  into the butter-egg mixture, then add 1/2 the buttermilk and 1/2 the
  coffee. Fold in another 1/3 of the dry mixture then the remaining
  buttermilk and coffee. Finish with the remaining dry dry mixture and
  the vanilla extract. 4. Spread the batter in the prepared pan.  Bake
  until cake springs back when touched lightly (30 - 35 min.).  Then
  turn out of pan and leave on the rack until completely cool. 5. Use a
  2-1/2 inch cookie cutter to cut rounds from the cake.  Place the
  rounds in paper cupcake liners. 6. Make the topping: If the
  macadamias are raw, roast them in a 350 degree oven, turning once,
  until they just begin to color.  Place the chopped chocolate in a
  bowl, heat the whipping cream tii the point of a bowl and pour it
  over the chocolate.  Let cool to warm then drizzle it over the
  cupcakes. Top with macadamia nuts.
  
  [Note: Ancho chili powder can be made by stemming and seeding whole
  ancho chilies and pulverizing them in an electric spice mill or
  coffee grinder. The poweder should be available at markets featuring
  Soutwestern ingredients or may be ordered by mail from G.B. Ratto &
  Co., 800-325-3483.]
  
  From Chicago Tribune Magazine 3/23/93. Posted by Bud Cloyd
 

 

 
      Title: Andrea's Fudge Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 8 servings
 
     12 oz Semi-sweet chocolate, coarse
           -y chopped
      5 ts Espresso or strong coffee
      2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Butter
      6    Eggs; large, separated, roo
           - temperature
      1 c  All-purpose flour
           Confectioners sugar for garn
           -sh, optional
 
  Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees. Lightly
  butter a 9" springform pan. Dust pan with flour and tap out excess.
  In top of double boiler over hot, not simmering water, melt together
  espresso and chocolate, stirring occasionally. Remove pan from heat
  and cool until tepid. In large bowl, using hand-held electric mixer
  set at medium high speed, cream sugar and butter together until light
  and fluffy. One at a time, add egg yolks to mixture, beating well
  after each addition. Beat in flour. In large grease-free bowl, using
  hand-held mixer at medium high speed, beat egg whites until they form
  stiff, shiny peaks. Fold 1/4 of the whites into chocolate mixture to
  lighten. Then fold in remaining whites. Fold in butter and flour
  mixture. Scrape batter into prepared pan and bake 60 to 70 minutes or
  until top is crusty and cracked and the middle is still slightly
  moist. Remove cake to wire rack to cool completely. Remove sides of
  springform pan and transfer cake to serving plate. If desired, place
  doily on top of cake and sprinkle with confectioners sugar. Remove
  doily to form pattern.
 

 

 
      Title: Ann Fowler's Toffee Crunch Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Cyberealm
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 pk Sara Lee Pound Cake, frozen
      2 c  Heavy cream
    3/4 c  Butterscotch syrup
      3    1/4 oz. chocolate covered
           Toffee candy bars, chopped
 
  1.  Cut pound cake horizontally into 3 equal-sized layers; set aside.
  
  2.  In a chilled large deep bowl, beat the cream with chilled beaters
  until stiff peaks form. Gradually add the butterscotch syrup, folding
  gently.
  
  3.  Place the first cake layer on a serving plate. Liberally frost
  with whipped cream mixture. Sprinkle layer with 1/3 of the candy
  bars. Arrange second layer and repeat process. Top with the third
  layer and frost top and sides of cake with remaining whipped cream.
  Drizzle more butterscotch syrup over cake, and top with remaining
  candy bars. Chill in refrigerator for at least 3 hours before serving.
  
  (Variation:  Use strawberry or chocolate syrup in place of
  butterscotch and garnish with chopped frozen strawberries or
  semi-sweet chocolate chips)
  
  From:  America's Favorite Desserts Cookbook, Sara Lee  1992
         Ann Fowler, Watertown, NY
 

 

 
      Title: Apfeltorte (Apple Cake)
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      8    Small apples
    1/2 c  Raisins
      2 ts Rum or rum extract
    3/4 c  Sugar; plus 3 tbsp, divided
      1 ts Chocolate; grated
    3/4 c  Butter or margarine; plus 2
           -sp, divided
      1 ts Vanilla
      3    Eggs
      1 ts Lemon extract
  1 1/4 c  All-purpose flour
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      3 ts Almonds; ground
           Apricot jam
           Powdered sugar; sifted
 
  Filling: Peel and core apples. Combine raisins, rum, 1 tablespoon of
  the sugar and the grated chocolate in small saucepan. Bring to boil.
  Set aside while preparing batter. Batter: Preheat oven to 350
  degrees. Lightly grease bottom of 10 1/2" springform pan. Cream 3/4
  cup of the butter, 3/4 cup of the sugar and vanilla together. Beat in
  eggs, 1 at a time, and lemon extract, beating until light and fluffy.
  Sift flour, baking powder and cinnamon together. Gradually beat into
  creamed mixture. Turn batter into prepared pan; arrange apples on
  top. Fill apple centers with raisin mixture. Dot with 2 teaspoons of
  the butter. Bake @ 350 degrees, 45 minutes. Sprinkle with mixture of
  ground almonds and remaining 2 tablespoons sugar. Bake 10 to 15
  minutes longer until apples are tender. Remove from oven. Brush jam
  over apple opening and sprinkle icing sugar over cake portion.
 

 

 
      Title: Bacardi Rum Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Alcohol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Package chocolate cake mix (
           -2 layer size)
      1    Jell-o chocolate instant pud
           -ding mix (4 serving)
      4    Eggs
    1/2 c  Bacardi dark rum
    1/4 c  Cold water
    1/2 c  Wesson oil
    1/2 c  Slivered almonds, optional
           Filling
  1 1/2 c  Cold milk
    1/4 c  Bacardi dark rum
      1    Jell-o chocolate instant pud
           -ding mix (4 serving)
      1    Dream whip topping mix
 
  Fat grams    per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: 30mn
  Preheat oven 350F.  Grease and flour 2 - 9 inch layer cake pans.
  Combine all cake ingredients together in a large bowl. Blend well,
  then beat at medium speed for 2 minutes.  Turn into prepared pans/
  Bake for 30 minutes or until cake tests done.  Do not underbake. Cool
  in pans for 10 minutes. Remove from pans, finish cooling on racks.
  Split layers horzontally. Spread one cup filling between each layer
  and over top of cake. Stack. Keep cake well chilled.  Serve cold.
  Filling: Combine milk, rum, pudding mix and topping mix in deep,
  narrow bowl. Blend well at high speed for 4 minutes, until light anf
  fluffy. Makes 4 cups.
 

 

 
      Title: Bailey's Irish Cream Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Alcohol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
 18 1/4 oz Pkg. yellow cake mix
      4 oz Instant chocolate pudding
    3/4 c  Oil
    1/8 c  Water
    1/4 c  Vodka
    3/8 c  Bailey's Irish Cream
      4    Eggs
 
  Combine cake mix, pudding mix, oil, water, vodka, liqueur and eggs in
  bowl. Beat until smooth. Pour into greased and floured 10 inch Bundt
  pan. Bake at 350~F 40 to 50 minutes or until done. Remove from pan
  and cool completely. Mix a glaze of Bailey's and powdered sugar to a
  thick consistency and drizzle over cake.
 

 

 
      Title: Banana Butterfinger Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  2 1/4 c  Cake flour
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
   1/16 c  (1 stick) unsalted butter,
           Room temperature
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      3 lg Eggs
      1 tb Dark rum
      1 ts Vanilla extract
    3/4 c  Sour cream
      1 ts Baking soda
      2 c  Mashed ripe bananas (about
           5)
  1 1/2 c  Chopped Butterfinger bars
           (about 6 oz.)

---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
    2/3 c  Whipping cream
      7 tb Unsalted butter, cut into
           Large pieces
      1 tb Light corn syrup
     14 oz Semisweet chocolate, chopped
      2 ts Dark rum
      1 ts Vanilla extract
  1 3/4 c  Chopped Butterfinger bars
           (about 7-1/2 oz)
 
  FOR CAKE: Position rack in top third of oven; preheat to 350-degree F.
  Butter two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1-1/2-inch-high sides.  Line
  bottoms with waxed paper rounds.  Butter and flour paper.
  
  Sift flour, baking powder and salt into medium bowl.  Using electric
  mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy.  Gradually add sugar
  and beat 2 minutes.  Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each
  addition. Beat in dark rum and vanilla extract.  Combine sour cream
  and baking soda in medium bowl.  Add mashed bananas to sour cream
  mixture and stir until well blended.  Add dry ingredients to butter
  mixture alternately with banana mixture, beginning and ending with
  dry ingredients.  Stir in chopped Butterfinger bars.
  
  Divide batter between prepared pans.  Bake until center of cake feels
  firm and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30
  minutes.  Cool in pans on rack 10 minutes.  Run small knife around
  sides of cakes to loosen. Turn out cakes onto racks and cook.  Peel
  off waxed paper.  (Can be prepared 1 day ahead.  Wrap cakes tightly
  and store at room temperature.)
  
  FOR GLAZE: Combine cream, butter and corn syrup in heavy medium
  saucepan. Bring to simmer over medium heat, stirring unti butter
  melts.  Remove from heat; add chocolate and stir until melted and
  smooth.  Stir in rum and vanilla.  Pour glaze into small bowl.  Cover
  and refrigerate just until cool and thick, stirring occasionally,
  about 40 minutes.
  
  Transfer 1 cake layer to platter.  Slide waxed paper strips under
  edges of cake.  Stir glaze until smooth.  Spread 1 cup glaze evenly
  over top of cake layer.  Top with second cake layer.  Spread
  remaining glaze over top and sides of cake.  Cover top and sides of
  cake with chopped Butterfinger bars. Remove paper strips.  (Can be
  made 2 days ahead.  Cover cake and store at room temperature.)
  
  SOURCE: BON APPETIT, June '93
 

 

 
      Title: Banana Chocolate Pudding Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate, Low-cal
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    3/4 c  Cake flour
    1/3 c  Nonfat dry milk powder
      1    Env. (4 svgs) low cal
           -chocolate pudding mix
      1 ts Baking powder
      4    Eggs, separated
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Sugar
    1/2 c  Evap skim milk
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      1 ds Salt
    1/2 c  Thawed cool whip (or use my
           -mock cool whip recipe)
      2 md Bananas
 
  From: Weight Watchers cookbook. Posted by: Donna Ransdell, COOKING
  echo Exchanges: 1/2 protein, 1/2 bread, 1/2 fruit, 1/2 milk, 30 opt.
  calories, per serving. Designed for Week 4 or later.
  
  1. Preheat oven to 350. Line bottom of 8x8x2 pan with wax paper; spray
  sides with Pam.
  
  2. Onto wax paper, sift together flour, dry milk, pudding mix, and
  baking powder; set aside.
  
  3. In large mixing bowl, combine egg yolks and sugar; using electric
  mixer, beat 2 minutes. Alternating ingredients, gradually beat in
  pudding mixture and milk; add vanilla. Beat a med-high til mixture is
  combined.
  
  4. In separate bowl, using clean beaters, beat egg whites with salt
  til stiff peaks form. Gently stir 1/4 of beaten egg whites into
  batter; carefully fold in remaining egg whites.
  
  5. Pour batter in baking pan. Bake 25-30 minutes til cake tester
  comes out clean.
  
  6. Let cake cool 5 minutes. Remove from pan. Set on wire rack to cool.
  
  7. Remove wax paper from cooled cake; transfer cake to serving
  platter and spread top with Cool Whip. Peel and slice bananas;
  transfer slices to small bowl, add lemon juice, and toss gently.
  Decoratively arrange banana slices over whipped topping. To serve,
  cut cake into 8 equal pieces.
 

 

 
      Title: Banana Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      6 tb Butter
    3/4 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Molasses
      3    Eggs
  2 1/2 c  Mashed overripe bananas
  2 3/4 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      1 c  Chocolate chips
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. Cream together the butter and sugar in a mixer.
  Add to the molasses and mix until combined. Add the eggs, then mix in
  the bananas. Mix in the flour, baking soda, salt and extract until
  smooth, then fold in the chocolate chips. Place the batter in a
  buttered and floured 9-inch springform mold. Bake for about 1 hour.
  Let the cake cool on a rack, cut it in half to form 2 layers, frost
  with your favorite chocolate frosting and serve.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 

 

 
      Title: Barcardi Rum Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Alcohol, Chocolate
      Yield: 10 servings
 
----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
      1 pk Chocolate cake mix
      1 pk Chocolate Instant Pudding..
      4 x  Eggs
    1/2 c  Barcardi Dark Rum
    1/4 c  Cold water
    1/2 c  Oil
    1/2 c  Slivered almonds, optional

--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Cold milk
    1/4 c  Barcardi Dark Rum
      1 pk Chocolate Instant Pudding
           Envelope Dream Whip Topping
 
  Preheat oven to 350F. Grease and flour two 9-in layer cake pans.
  Combine all cake ingredients together in large bowl. Blend well, then
  beat at medium mixer speed for 2 minutes. Turn into prepared pans.
  Bake for 30 minutes or until cake tests done. Do not underbake. cool
  in pans for 10 minutes. Remove from pans, finish cooling on racks.
  Split layers in half horizontally. Spread 1 cup filling between each
  layer and over top of cake. Stack. Keep cake chilled. Serve cold.
  Optional: Garnish with chocolate curls. Filling: Combine milk, rum,
  pudding mix and topping mix in deep narrow-bottom bowl. Blend well at
  high speed for 4 minutes, until light and fluffy. Makes 4 cups.
 

 

 
      Title: Bavarian Spice Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate, Spicy
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      1 pk Pillsbury Plus Devil's Food
           -Cake Mix
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
      1 c  Cold mashed potatoes
    1/2 c  Butter, softened
    1/2 c  Water
      3    Eggs
           Glaze:
    1/2 c  Semi-sweet chocolate chips
      1 tb Butter
      2 tb Milk
    1/2 c  Powdered sugar
 
  Info:  posted by Perry Lowell, GOURMET, June 1993 unknown origin,
  perhaps Pillsbury
  
  Cake:
  
  Heat oven to 350 degrees (F).  Grease and flour a 12-cup fluted tube
  pan.
  
  In large bowl, blend cake mix, cinnamon, nutmeg, potatoes, butter,
  water, and eggs until moistened. Beat 2 minutes at highest speed.
  
  Pour into prepared pan.  Bake at 350 degrees (F) for 40-50 minutes.
  Cool upright in pan 25 minutes;  invert onto serving plate.  Cool
  completely.
  
  In small saucepan, blend chocolate chips, 1 Tablespoon butter and
  milk over low heat until chocolate melts, stirring constantly. Remove
  from heat; stir in powdered sugar until smooth. (If needed, add a few
  more drops of milk for desired consistency.) Spoon over top of cake,
  allowing some to run down the sides.
  
  Garnish as desired.
  
  Makes 16 servings.
 

 

 
      Title: Best Chocolate Cake with Fudge Frosting
 Categories: Cyberealm, Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 c  Flour
      2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Shortening
    3/4 c  Water
    3/4 c  Buttermilk
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Sale
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 ts Baking powder
      2    Eggs
      4 oz Unsweetened chocolate,
           -melted and cooled
           Fudge frosting (see below)
 
  1.  Heat oven to 350F.
  
  2.  Grease and flour 13 x 9 x 3 pan, 3 8" round pans or 2 9" round
  pans.
  
  3.  Beat all ingredients except fudge frosting in a large bowl on low
  speed for 30 seconds, scraping bowl constantly. Beat on high speed
  for 3 minutes, scraping bowl constantly. Pour into pan(s).
  
  4.  Bake for 40-45 minutes (rectangle pan) or 30-35 minutes (round
  pans), or until wooden pick comes out clean. Cool rounds 10 min.;
  remove from pans. Cool completely. Frost.
  
  ======================================================================
  
                                  Fudge Frosting
  
  2 c sugar                               1/2  c shortening 3 oz
  unsweetened chocolate              2/3  c milk 1/2 t salt 2 t vanilla
  
  Mix all ingredients except vanilla in a 2 1/2 quart saucepan. Heat to
  a rolling boil, stirring occasionally. Boil 1 minute without
  stirring. Place saucepan in a bowl of ice and water. Beat until
  frosting is smooth and of spreading consistency; add vanilla.
 

 

 
      Title: Better Than Sex Cake  (Ladies Only)
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  Flour
  1 1/4    Sticks Butter (Soft)
  1 1/4 c  Chopped Pecans
      8 oz Pkg. Cream Cheese (Soft)
      1 c  Confectioner's Sugar
      2    Tubs- 8 oz. Cool Whip
      3 pk INSTANT Chocolate Pudding
  4 1/4 c  Milk
 
  Preheat Oven to 375*
  
  Chocolate Chips
  
  First Layer:  Combine flour, butter and 1 cup Pecans in a 9 x 13 pan.
  Bake at 375, for 20 min...........let cool.
  
  Second Layer: Beat cream cheese and sugar together......add 10 oz. of
  Cool Whip.....spread on first layer.
  
  Third Layer:  Mix 4 1/4 cups of milk with 3 pkgs of pudding....beat 2
  minutes....spread on second layer.
  
  Top Layer:    Top with remaining Cool Whip.....sprinkle with the
  extra 1/4 cup nuts and chocolate chips.
  
  Refrigerate this over night.
 

 

 
      Title: Black Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 oz Unsweetened chocolate
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Milk
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Butter
      1 c  Milk
      2    Eggs
      2 c  Flour, sifted
      1 ts Soda
 
  Boil first 3 ingredients until thick; set aside to cool. Mix together
  remaining ingredients. Add cooled chocolate; beat with electric mixer
  2 minutes on medium speed. Bake in 9 x 13" pan 25 minutes @ 350
  degrees.
 

 

 
      Title: Black Forest Trifle Dessert
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate, Alcohol
      Yield: 10 servings
 
    1/2 pk Devil's food cake mix
    1/2 c  Rum
     21 oz Can cherry pie filling

---------------------CHOCOLATE CUSTARD--------------------------
    2/3 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Cocoa
    1/8 ts Salt
      3    Eggs, beaten
      2 c  Milk
      1    Toppings
      1 c  Whipping cream
      2 tb Powdered sugar
    1/4 c  Sliced almonds, toasted
 
  Prepare cake mix according to package directions; cut into 1/2 inch
  slices. Line bottom of 2 quart bowl of trifle dish with half of cake
  slices; sprinkle with 2-4 tbsp. rum. Spoon half of cherry pie filling
  over cake; top with half of choclate pudding. Repeat procedure with
  remaining cake, rum, pie filling and custard. Cover and chill. Beat
  whipping cream until foamy; gradually add powdered sugar, beating
  until soft peaks form. Spread over custard; garnish with almonds.
  CHOCOLATE CUSTARD: Combine first 3 ingredients in top of double
  boiler. Combine eggs and milk, gradually stir into dry mixture. Bring
  water in double boiler to a boil, reduce heat to low and cook
  custard, stirring constantly until thick. Cool. Dessert yields 6-8
  servings.
 

 

 
      Title: Black Magic Cake (For Food Processor)
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Sugar
  1 3/4 c  Flour
    3/4 c  Unsweetened cocoa
      2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Strong coffee
      1 c  Sour cream
    1/2 c  Vegetable oil
      2    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla

--------------------------FROSTING-------------------------------
      4 oz Unsweetened chocolate
    1/3 c  Water
      2 tb Butter
      1 ts Vanilla
      3 c  Powdered sugar
 
  Preheat oven to 350. Butter 9 x 13' pan; set aside. Use metal blade
  to mix the first 6 ingredients until combined, about 5 seconds. In a
  4 cup liquid measure, stir together the remaining ingredients. With
  the machine running, slowly pour liquid in a steady stream through
  the small feed tube. Let blend until smooth, about 5 seconds. Scrape
  down work bowl and mix 5 seconds more. Pour into prepared pan and
  bake for 40 to 45 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted in the
  center comes out clean. Remove from oven and let cool on wire rack.
  Frost with Dark Chocolate Frosting. Break chocolate into 1" chunks.
  Use metal blade to chop fine. Bring water and butter just to boil;
  remove from heat; add vanilla. With machine running, pour liquid in
  slow stream through tube. Scrape; add sugar. Blend.
  
  Shared by JEANNE SCHIFF, Prodigy ID# SSBB43A.
 

 

 
      Title: Black Russian Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Alcohol, Chocolate
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 pk Yellow cake mix
      1 pk Instant chocolate pudding
      2 ts Cinnamon
      2 ts Instant coffee
      4    Eggs

------------------MILK CHOCOLATE FROSTING-----------------------
    1/2 pk Milk chocolate frost mix (14
      2 tb Hot water
      2 tb Butter, softened
      1 tb Brandy
      1 tb Orange Flavor liqueur
    1/4 ts Almond extract
      2 tb Powdered sugar
    3/4 c  Water
    3/4 c  Oil
    1/4 c  Vodka
    1/4 c  Tia Maria or cream de cacao
 
  Combine all ingredients, blend for 1 minutes with mixer at low speed;
  beat at high speed for 2 minutes. Spoon into greased and floured
  Bundt pan. Bake at 350 degrees for 45 minutes. Cool at least 10 in
  pan; turn out to cool. Ice with the milk chocolate frosting.
  Frosting: Combine all ingredients in small mixing bowl, beat 1 minute
  at low speed, beat for 1 minute at high speed. Stir in a few more
  drops of water until mixture reaches desired spreading consistency.
 

 

 
      Title: Black Velvet
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Almonds - slivered, slightly
           -toasted
     12 oz Chocolate chips
      1    Devil's food cake mix
      1 pk Chocolate pudding - instant,
           -3-1/2 oz. package
      4    Eggs
      1 c  Sour cream
    1/2 c  Water
    1/4 c  Oil
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Almond extract
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
 
  Calories     per serving:             Number of Servings:   0 Fat
  grams per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: Cholesterol per
  serving: Marks:
  
  *DIRECTIONS*
  
  Sprinkle 1/2 cup almonds on bottom of greased 10-inch tube pan. Set
  aside rest of almonds and chocolate chips.  Place remaining
  ingredients in mixer bowl.  Beat 4 minutes.  Fold in chips and
  almonds, then pour into pan. Bake in 350 F oven 60 to 70 minutes.
  Cool 15 minutes and remove from pan. Serve with topping of whipped
  cream if desired.
  
  Note from me:  A nice touch would be to puncture finished cake with
  long-tined fork.  Dribble over cake about 1/4 cup Kahlua.  Then serve
  with sweetened whipped cream flavored with almond or vanilla extract.
  
  From "The Seven Chocolate Sins" by Ruth Moorman & Lalla Williams.
 

 

 
      Title: Bresse Farmhouse Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      7 oz Bittersweet chocolate
           -OR- semisweet chocolate,
           - broken into small pieces
    1/4 lb Unsalted butter; PLUS:
      1 ts Unsalted butter
    1/4 c  Cake flour
    1/2 c  Superfine sugar; PLUS:
      1 tb Superfine sugar
      3    Eggs
    3/4 c  Heavy cream; reduced by half
           -(SEE NOTE)
      1 tb Unsweetened cocoa powder
 
  NOTE: Simmer cream until reduced by half, about 20 minutes.
  
  Preheat the oven to 400 F.  Lightly butter an 8-inch springform pan.
  In a double boiler, melt 4 ounces of the chocolate with 1/4 pound of
  the butter, cut into small pieces.
  
  In a medium bowl, blend the flour and 1/3 cup of the sugar.  Add the
  eggs and mix well.  Add the melted chocolate and butter to the bowl
  and, with an electric mixer, beat at high speed for about 5 minutes,
  until the batter is smooth and forms a ribbon when the beaters are
  lifted.  Pour the batter into the prepared pan (it will be about 1
  inch deep) and bake for 15 to 20 minutes, until the cake is set and a
  toothpick inserted in the center comes out dry. Unmold the cake onto
  a rack and let it cool; it will fall to about half its original
  height.
  
  Meanwhile, in a double boiler, melt the remaining 3 ounces of
  chocolate with the remaining 1 teaspoon butter.
  
  In a small heavy saucepan, bring the reduced cream to a boil, then
  whisk it vigorously into the chocolate.  Continue whisking until
  smooth and glossy.
  
  Place sheets of waxed paper under the cake and cooling rack.  Pour the
  frosting over the top of the cake, using a metal spatula to spread the
  frosting evenly over the top and sides.
  
  After the frosting has hardened slightly, about 5 minutes, use a long
  straight knife to mark the top in a crisscross pattern.  Mix the
  cocoa with the remaining 1 tablespoon sugar and sprinkle it
  decoratively over the cake before serving.
  
  Recipe by Georges Blanc, La Mre Blanc, Vonnas, France Great Desserts
  ~ ISBN: 0-916103-04-8
 

 

 
      Title: Cake Recipe
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 oz To 4 oz chocolate
    1/2 c  Milk
      1 c  Light brown sugar, firmly
           -packed
      1    Egg yolk
 
  Preheat oven to 350. Prepare the following custard: Cook and stir in a
  double boiler OVER-not IN-hot water: Remonve from heat when
  thickened. Have other ingredients at about 75 degrees. Sift before
  measuring: 2 c. cake flour Resift with: 1 tsp soda 1/2 tsp salt Sift:
  1 c. white sugar Beat until soft: 1/2 c. butter Add the sugar
  gradually. Blend until very light and creamy.  Beat in, one at a
  time: 2 egg yolks Add the flour to the butter mixture in 3 parts,
  alternating with thirds of: 1/4 c. water 1/2 c milk 1 tsp vanilla
  Stir the batter until smooth after each addition. Stir in the
  chocolate custard. Whip until stiff, but not dry: 2 egg whites Fold
  them light into the cake batter.  Baked in 2 greased 9-inch round
  pans for about 25 minutes.  Spread, when cool, with: Caramel Icing or
  Chocolate Icing (recipes follow)
  
  CARAMEL ICING
  
  Stir until the sugar is dissolved: 2 c. brown sugar 1 c. cream or 1/2
  c. butter plus 1/2 c. milk Cover and cook for about 3 minutes or
  until the steam has washed down any crystals which may have formed on
  the sides of the pan.  Uncover and cook without stirring to 238 to
  240 degrees. Add: 3 TBSP butter Remove the icing from the heat and
  cool to 110 degrees. Add: 1 tsp vanilla Beat the icing until it is
  thick and creamy. If it becomes too heavy, thin it with a little
  cream until it is of the right consistency to be spread.
 

 

 
      Title: Caramel-Orange Buche De Noel Part 1
 Categories: Cakes, Entertain
      Yield: 2 servings
 
           -BUTTERCREAM
      6 lg Egg yolks
    1/3 c  Firmly packed dark brown
           -sugar
      2 tb All purpose flour
  1 1/2 c  Half and half
      8 oz Imported white chocolate
           -(such as Lindt), chopped
  1 1/2 ts Grated orange peel
           -CAKE
  1 1/2 c  Toasted sliced almonds
      2 tb Unbleached all purpose
           -flour
      6 lg Eggs, separated
     10 tb Firmly packed dark brown
           -sugar
      1 ts Grated orange peel
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
    1/2 ts Cream of tartar
    1/8 ts Salt
           Powered sugar
      1 c  (2 sticks) unsalted
           -butter, room temperature
      1 tb Grand Marnier or other
           -orange liqueur
           Pine twigs
           Candied Cranberries (see
           -recipe below) or fresh
           -currants
 
   The buche de Noel, or Christmas log, was created in the late
  nineteenth century by Parisian pastry chefs, who were inspired by the
  real logs that burned on hearths throughout the night on Christmas
  Eve. Our version can be decorated with Candied Cranberries or fresh
  currants. Enjoy with a glass of orange liqueur or Sauternes.
  
   8 Servings
  
   FOR BUTTERCREAM: Whisk egg yolks, sugar and flour in medium bowl to
  blend well. Bring half and half to simmer in heavy medium saucepan.
  Slowly whisk hot half and half into egg mixture. Return egg mixture
  to same saucepan and cook until mixture boils and thickens, whisking
  constantly. Transfer mixture to medium bowl. Add chocolate and orange
  peel and stir until mixture is smooth. Press plastic wrap onto
  surface f pastry cream to prevent skin from orming. Cool completely.
  (Pastry cream can be prepared 1 day ahead. Refrigerate. Bring to room
  temperature before continuing.)
  
   ===contined====
 

 

 
      Title: Cheese and Chocolate Tunnel Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1    Two layer chocolate cake mix
           -ith pudding
    1/3 c  Margarine or butter
     16 oz Cream cheese, softened
    1/2 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs
      2 ts Margarine or butter, melted
      2 oz Semi sweet chocolate
      2 ts Corn syrup
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Prepare cake mix according to package
  directions, substituting margarine for oil. Reserve 1 cup of batter.
  Pour remaining batter into a 12 cup greased and floured fluted tube
  pan. Combine cream cheese and sugar, mixing well at medium speed on
  an electric mixer until well blended. Blend in eggs, one at a time.
  Pour over batter in the pan. Spoon reserved batter over cream cheese
  mixture. Bake 1 hour or until toothpick inserted in center comes out
  clean. Cool 30 minutes; remove to a wire rack. Combine margarine,
  chocolate and corn syrup in a small saucepan. Cook over low heat
  until chocolate is melted. Pour over cooled cake.
 

 

 
      Title: Cheese Cake (Nurit)
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 16 servings
 
----------------------------MAIN---------------------------------
    500 g  Cheese - 5% fat
    250 g  Cheese - 9% fat
      1 c  "leben" *
      6    Eggs
      1 c  Sugar
      4 tb Vanilla Instant Pudding **
      4 tb Cornflour
        tb Vanilla Sugar (optional)

--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
      1 c  Cream
           Vanilla Instant Pudding
           -( the remnant from above)
           Some chocolate -=or=-
           Minced nuts (for decoration)
 
  * Sour cream of less than 5% fat ** Powder
  
  Separate the eggs. Beat the egg whites with the sugar to make a solid
  foam. Mix the other ingredients in a separate bowl. Add the foam with
  light movements. Pour into a baking pan of 26 cm diameter. Bake for
  10 minutes in a preheated hot oven, then lower temperature to medium
  and leave the cake in for about 45 minutes. When ready (check with a
  tooth pick), let it cool down for at least 10 minutes in the partly
  open oven.
  
  Beat the cream with the rest of the instant pudding. Put this on the
  cake in a thin layer. Spread some chocolate crumbs or minced nuts for
  decoration.
 

 

 
      Title: Cherry Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Flour
    3/4 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Vegetable oil
      2    Eggs
      2 ts Vanilla
  1 1/4 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 ts Salt
     21 oz Can cherry pie filling
      6 oz Chocolate chips
      1 c  Chopped nuts
 
  Confectioners sugar
  
  Combine flour, sugar, oil, eggs, vanilla, baking soda, cinnamon and
  salt. Mix well. Stir in pie filling, chocolate chips and nuts, if
  desired. Pour into greased and floured tube pan. Bake at 350 degrees
  for 1 to 1 1/2 hours. Cool 10 minutes in pan. Sprinkle with
  confectioners sugar.
 

 

 
      Title: Chips Ahoy Ice Cream Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate, Ice cream
      Yield: 12 servings
 
     32    Chips Ahoy chocolate chip
           -cookies
    1/4 c  Margarine, melted
      1 c  Chocolate fudge topping
      2 qt Ice cream, any combination
           -of flavors
 
  prepared whipped topping for garnish strawberries or maraschino
  cherries, for garnish
  
  Finely roll 20 cookies. Combine cookie crumbs and margarine. Press
  onto bottom of 9-inch springform pan or pie plate; stand remaining
  cookies around edge of pan or pie plate. Spread 3/4 cup fudge topping
  over prepared crust. Freeze about 15 minutes.
  
  Meanwhile, soften 1 qt. ice cream. Spread softened ice cream over
  fudge layer. Freeze about 30 minutes. Scoop remaining ice cream into
  balls; arrange over ice cream layer. Freeze until firm, about 4 hours
  overnight. To serve, garnish with whipped topping, remaining fudge
  topping, strawberries or maraschino cherries. Serve immediately.
  Makes 12 servings.
 

 

 
      Title: Choco Date Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8 oz Pitted Dates
  1 1/4 c  Water
  1 1/4 c  Unbleached All-Purpose
           -Flour; Sifted
  1 1/4 ts Baking Soda
    1/2 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Butter Or Regular Margarine
      1 c  Sugar
      2 lg Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Quick Cooking Oats (Not
           -Instant)
      6 oz Semi-Sweet Chocolate Chips;
           -1 Pk
           Sweetened Whipped Cream
 
  Yield: 16 Servings
  
  Combine the dates and water in a saucepan, and bring to a boil, then
  reduce the heat and simmer, covered, for 10 minutes.  Remove from the
  heat and cool completely.
  
  Sift the flour, baking soda and salt together, blending well, then set
  aside.
  
  Cream the butter and sugar together in a medium mixing bowl, until
  light and fluffy, using an electric mixer set on medium speed.  Add
  the eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition.  Beat in
  the vanilla.
  
  Stir the flour mixture into the creamed mixture, blending well. Stir
  in the date mixture, oats, and chocolate chips, mixing until well
  blended. Pour the batter into a greased 13 X 9 X 2-inch baking pan.
  
  Bake in a preheated 350 Degree F oven for 35 minutes or until a cake
  tester or wooden pick inserted in the center of the cake comes out
  clean. Cool in the pan on a wire rack.  Serve the cake topped with
  sweetened whipped cream.
  
  From Rich Harper
  
  Taken from Farm Journal's Complete Home Baking Book By Elise W.
  Manning.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Silk Mousse Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
     16 oz Semi-Sweet Chocolate *
     10 tb Unsalted Butter
      4 lg Eggs
      1 tb Sugar
      1 tb Unbleached Flour
      1 tb Real Vanilla Extract

-------------------------GARNISHES------------------------------
           White Candy Roses

---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
    1/2 c  Heavy Cream
      3 oz Semi-sweet Chocolate
 
  * There should be 16 squares of semi-sweet chocolate and they should
  ~---------------------------------------------------------------------
  ~-- One to Three Days In Advance:  Preheat oven to 425F.  Butter
  bottom and sides of an 8-inch springform pan.  Line bottom with
  parchment or waxed paper.  Using heavy-duty aluminum foil, wrap foil
  under and up outside of spring form pan to prevent leaks; set aside.
  In 3-qt saucepan, combine cut-up chocolate and butter.  Cook over low
  heat, stirring often, until chocolate and butter melt and mixture is
  smooth.  Remove from heat; cool 15 minutes.  Meanwhile, with whisk,
  beat eggs and sugar over hot, but not boiling, water, until eggs are
  lukewarm and foamy and sugar is dissolved. Transfer to large bowl.
  Beat egg mixture at high speed until very thick and pale
  yellow--about 8 minutes.  Beat in flour.  Spoon about one fourth egg
  mixture into cooled chocolate.  Fold chocolate back into remaining
  egg mixture.  Pour into prepared pan.  Place pan in deep roasting
  pan.  Fill with enough hot water to come 2/3rds of the way up the
  side of springform pan.  Bake 15 minutes (mixture will still be soft
  in center).  Place cake on wire rack; remove foil; carefully loosen
  edge of cake with a sharp knife or metal spatula.  DO NOT remove side
  of springform pan.  Cool at room temperature 1 hour.  Refrigerate
  overnight or up to 3 days.  On day of serving prepare glaze:  In
  small saucepan, combine heavy cream and chocolate.  Cook over low
  heat, stirring often, until chocolate melts and mixture is smooth.
  Chill until thick enough to spread but still pourable, 20 minutes.
  Loosen cake and remove sides of springform pan.  Invert cake onto
  serving plate.  Carefully remove bottom of springform pan and
  parchment paper.  Spread some of the glaze on side of cake.  Pour
  remaining glaze on top, spreading with a spatula to form a smooth
  surface. Let cake stand at room temperature about 30 minutes to set
  glaze before decorating with white candy roses.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Decadence Cake
 Categories: Ghirardelli, Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
     12 oz Ghirardelli bittersweet
           -chocolate
    1/2 c  Butter
      8    Eggs, separated
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 pn Salt
 
  DIRECTIONS: In heavy saucepan, melt broken chocolate with butter,
  stirring constantly until smooth. (Or microwave on medium for 2 1/2
  to 3 minutes; stir until smooth.) Beat egg yolks a few minutes with 2
  Tbsp of the sugar and vanilla. Remove melted chocolate from heat;
  using wire whip, quickly stir in beaten egg yolks. Beat egg whites
  with salt, gradually adding remaining sugar, beating until soft peaks
  form. Place chocolate mixture into a large bowl with beaten egg
  whites on top. Using wire whip carefully combine the two mixtures. Do
  not overmix.
  
  Cut parchment paper to fit bottom of a 9" spring form pan. Butter
  bottom of pan and top of paper. Spread batter into prepared pan. Bake
  on lower shelf of 350-F oven for 30-35 minutes until cracked on top
  and a toothpick comes out clean in center. Cool on wire rack. Cake
  will shrink down as it cools. Remove pan and loosen cake from paper.
  Top with either Dark Chocolate Glaze* or Whipped Cream Frosting with
  Raspberry Sauce*. For chocolate-glazed cake, trim top straight, and
  turn cake upside down on a flat cake plate. For Whipped Cream
  Frosting, place cake top side up.
  
  *Separate recipe
  
  Source: Recipes from Ghirardelli Chocolate Company of San Francisco
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Zucchini Cake Recipe
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Soft oleo
    1/2 c  Oil
  1 3/4 c  Sugar
  2 1/2 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Baking soda
      2 c  Grated zucchini
      2    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Sour milk
      4 tb Cocoa
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 c  Chocolate chips
 
  Cream together the oleo, oil and sugar.  Add eggs, vanilla, and sour
  milk. Mix well.  Add dry ingredients after sifting them together.
  Beat well. Add zucchini last and mix evenly.  Put in a 13 x 9 pan.
  Sprinkle with chocolate chips.  Bake at 350 for 35 min. or until
  done. This is GREAT topped with cream cheese frosting.
  
  Cream Cheese Frosting
  
  1 pkg. (3 oz.) cream cheese--softened 4 Tbsp. butter--softened dash
  of salt 1 tsp. vanilla 2 1/2 c. sifted powdered sugar
  
  Cream together the cream cheese and butter.  Beat in vanilla and salt.
  Gradually add powdered sugar.  Blend well.  Frost cake.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Peanut Butter Pound Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
--------------------PEANUT BUTTER MOUSSE-------------------------
      2 c  Powdered Sugar, Sifted
    3/4 c  Creamy Peanut Butter
      2 tb Creamy Peanut Butter
      6 oz Cream Cheese (Room Temp)
      3 tb Whipping Cream
      2 lg Egg Whites

----------------------CHOCOLATE MOUSSE---------------------------
      1 c  Whipping Cream
    1/3 c  Sugar
      8 oz Bittersweet Chocolate *
  1 1/2 ts Instant Espresso Powder
  2 1/2 tb Hot Water
      3    Egg Yolks

----------------------CHOCOLATE GLAZE---------------------------
    2/3 c  Whipping Cream
      5 tb Butter
      5 oz Chopped Semisweet Chocolate

--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
    1/3 c  Fresh Raspberry (Optional)
           Fresh Mint Sprigs
 
  *Can use semisweet chocolate, chopped
  ~---------------------------------------------------------------------
  ~-- PEANUT BUTTER MOUSSE - Line 6-cup loaf pan with foil. Mix
  together 1 1/2 cups sugar, peanut butter and cream cheese in large
  bowl until smooth. Mix in cream. Beat egg whites in medium bowl until
  soft peaks form. Gradually add remaining 2/3 c. sugar and beat until
  stiff and shiny. Fold whites into peanut butter mixture in 2
  additions. Tilt prepared pan lengthwise at 45 degree angle.  Spoon in
  peanut butter mousse and smooth top. (Mousse will form triangle down
  length of pan.) Set pan in freezer, propping to hold angle. Freeze
  until mousse is firm, about 1 hour. CHOCOLATE MOUSSE - Heat cream and
  sugar in heavy small pan over very low heat, stirring just until
  sugar dissolves. Transfer to med. bowl and refrigerate until well
  chilled. Meanwhile, melt chocolate in top of double boiler over
  simmer water, stirring until smooth - cool 5 min. Dissolve expresso
  powder in hot water in small bowl. Whisk in yolks. Add mixture to
  warm chocolate and stir until mixture is smooth and slightly
  thickened. Let stand until batter is cooled to room tem, but not set.
  Beat chilled cream to soft peaks. Fold cream into chocolate mixture
  in 2 additions. Set pan with frozen peanut butter mousse flat onto
  work surface. spoon chocolate mousse over frozen peanut butter
  mousse.  Smooth top.  cover pan. Freeze until chocolate is firm, 6
  hours or overnight. GLAZE - Heat cream and butter in med. saucepan
  over low heat until cream simmers and butter is melted. Turn off
  heat. Add chocolate and whisk until mixture is smooth. Let cool until
  thickened, but still of pouring consistency, about 1 1/2 hours.
  Invert loaf onto cake rack. Remove pan; remove foil. Pour glaze over
  mousse and smooth all surfaces. Transfer mousse to serving platter.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Mousse Cake (Part One)
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
------------------------FOR THE CAKE-----------------------------
      8 oz Semisweet chocolate;chopped
           Coarse
      6 tb Unsalted butter;cut into
           Pieces, softened
      8    Eggs;separated,room temp
      1 c  Sugar
      2 tb Orange flavored liqueur
      1 tb Orange rind; grated
    1/4 ts Salt; plus a pinch
      1 pn Cream of tartar
    2/3 c  Cake flour; SIFTED!!
      9 oz Semisweet chocolate; chopped
           - coarse
      6    Egg yolks; room temperature
    3/4 c  Sugar; + 1 tb
      2 tb -Water
     10 tb Unsalted butter
           -Cut in pieces and softened

----------------SEE CHOCOLATE MOUSSE CAKE II---------------------
 
   FOR THE CAKES: Butter two 9" round cake pans and line the bottoms
  with wax paper, then butter the paper. Dust the pans with flour and
  knock out the excess. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees.
   In the top of a double boiler, heat the chocolate over hot water,
  stirring, until just melted. Remove the pan from the heat and stir in
  the butter, one tablespoon at a time. Continue to stir the mixture
  until smooth. In the bowl of the mixer, beat the egg yolks until
  combined. Add 34 cup of the sugar, a little at a time, and continue
  to beat the mixture until it falls in a ribbon when the beater is
  lifted.
   Beat in the melted chocolate mixture, the liqueur and the orange
  pinch of salt until frothy. Add the cream of tartar and beat the
  whites until they hold soft peaks. Add the remaining 1/4 cup sugar, a
  little at a time, and beat the whites until they are stiff. Sift the
  flour with the remaining 1/4 teaspoon salt onto a sheet of wax paper.
  Stir one fourth of the whites into the batter. Fold in the remaining
  whites and sift and fold the flour mixture in batches into the egg
  mixture until just combined.
   Pour the batter into the cake pans, smoothing the tops, and bake the
  layers in the middle of the oven for 30 to 35 minutes, or until a cake
  tester inserted into the centers comes out clean. Let the cakes cool
  in the pans on racks for 5 minutes, invert the cakes onto the racks,
  and remove the wax paper carefully. Let the cakes cool completely.
  The cakes form a thin crust that will flake off.
  
  SEE PART TWO
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Peanut Butter Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 pk (approximately 2 cups) milk
           -chocolate
    1/3 c  Creamy peanut butter
      2    Eggs
           Cake mix
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts
    1/2 c  Water
 
  Combine all ingredients in mixing bowl, beat for 2 minutes Pour
  batter into greased and floured  2-pound  coffee can Place can in
  CROCK-POT. Cover top of can with 8 paper towels. Cover and bake on
  High 2 to 3 hours.
  
  From Rival Crock-Pot cookbook, date unknown
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Surprise Cupcakes
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes, Kids
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 pk (8 oz) Philadelphia Brand
           -Cream Cheese, softened
           (I'm sure your store brand
           -would work)
    1/3 c  Granulated sugar
      1    Egg
    1/2 c  Baker's Semi-Sweet Chocolate
           -Chips
           (or any brand)
           CUPCAKES:
      2    Squares Baker's Unsweetened
           -Chocolate, melted
    1/3 c  Vegetable oil
  1 1/4 c  All purpose flour
      1 c  Granulated sugar
    3/4 c  Water
      1    Egg
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  From: Baker's Chocolate Cookbook
  
  FILLING:
  
  powdered sugar (optional)
  
  HEAT oven to 350.
  
  BEAT cream cheese, 1/3 cup granulated sugar and 1 egg til smooth.
  Stir in chips; set aside.
  
  BEAT melted chocolate, oil, flour, 1 cup granulated sugar, water, 1
  egg, vanilla, baking soda, and salt in large bowl with wire whisk or
  fork until blended and smooth. Spoon 1/2 the batter evenly into 18
  greased or paper-lined muffin cups. Top each with 1 tbsp of the cream
  cheese mixture. Spoon the remaining batter evenly over cream cheese
  mixture.
  
  BAKE for 30 to 35 minutes or til toothpick inserted into center comes
  out clean. Remove from pans to cool on wire racks. Sprinkle with
  powdered sugar, if desired.
  
  Preptime: 15 minutes. Bake time: 30 to 35 minutes.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Orgasms
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 oz Unsweetened chocolate
      8 tb Unsalted butter, room temp
  1 1/4 c  Plus 1 Tbsp. sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
      3 lg Eggs, room temp
    3/4 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 c  Plus 2 Tbsp chopped walnuts
           Frosting
  1 1/2 oz Unsweetened chocolate
    1/4 c  Evaporated milk
    1/3 c  Sugar
 
  Preheat the oven to 325 degrees.  Lightly grease an 8-inch square pan
  with butter or vegetable oil.  Melt the chocolate and butter in the
  top of a double boiler placed over simmering water.  Cool the mixture
  for 5 minutes.
  
  Place the sugar in a medium-size mixing bowl and pour in the chocolate
  mixture.  Using an electric mixer on medium speed, mix until blended,
  about 25 seconds.  Scrape the bowl with a rubber spatula. Add the
  vanilla.  With the mixer on medium-low speed, add the eggs one at a
  time, blending after each addition until the yolk is broken and
  dispersed, about 10 seconds. Scrape the bowl after the last egg and
  blend until velvety, about 15 more seconds.
  
  Add the flour on low speed and mix for 20 seconds; finish the mixing
  by hand, being certain to mix in any flour at the bottom of the bowl.
  Stir in 1/2 cup of the nuts.  Spread the batter evenly in the
  prepared pan and sprinkle the remaining 2 Tbsp of nuts over the top.
  Bake the brownies on the center oven rack until a thin crust forms on
  top and a tester inserted in the center comes out with a moist crumb,
  about 35 minutes.  (The center of the brownies should never quite
  rise to the height of the edges.)
  
  Remove pan from oven and place on a rack to cool for 1 hour.
  
  FROSTING: To prepare the frosting, melt the chocolate in the top of a
  double boiler placed over simmering water. Pour the evaporated milk
  into an electric blender and add the sugar and the melted chocolate.
  Blend the frosting on medium-low speed until it thickens, about 50
  seconds (the sound of the machine will change when this process
  occurs.)
  
  Using a frosting spatula, spread the frosting evenly over the surface
  of the cooled brownies and allow them to sit for 1 hour before
  cutting. Makes 36 small brownies.
  
  FROM: Rosie's Bakery All-Butter Fresh Cream Sugar-Packed
  No-Holds-Barred Baking Book by Judy Rosenberg.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Walnut Torte
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8 oz Ghirardelli Bittersweet
           -Chocolate
    3/4 c  Butter
      4    Egg separated
    3/4 c  Sugar, divided
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/4 c  Unsifted flour
    2/3 c  Walnuts, ground
           Cream of tartar
           Chocolate Rum Glaze
      4 oz Ghirardelli Bittersweet
           -Chocolate
      2 tb Butter
      1 tb Light corn syrup
      1 tb Dark rum (opt)
 
  In heavy saucepan on low heat, melt broken chocolate with butter,
  stirring constantly until smooth; set aside. Beat egg yolks for 1 to
  2 minutes, gradually adding 1/2 cup sugar and vanilla. Beat in
  chocolate mixture. Fold in flour and nuts. Beat egg whites with cream
  of tartar until foamy.
  
  Gradually add remaining 1/4 cup sugar, beating until stiff peaks form.
  
  Blend a fourth of the egg whites into the chocolate mixture; fold in
  remaining egg whites. Pour into 9-inch springform pan lined with
  parchment paper. Bake at 375 F for 30 to 35 min or until sides start
  to separate from pan but center is still moist. Cool on rack. Remove
  torte from pan. Frost with Chocolate Rum Glaze.
  
  Chocolate Rum Glaze In heavy saucepan on low heat, melt broken
  chocolate with butter, stirring constantly until smooth. Remove from
  heat. Stir in corn syrup and rum. Place torte upside-down on a rack
  over tray to catch excess glaze. Spread a very thin layer of glaze
  over top and sides of torte to set surface. Chill 15 minutes to firm
  glaze. Reheat remaining glaze to thin and pour over top and sides of
  torte. When glaze is firm, remove cake from rack to large plate.
  Decorate top and sides with shaved chocolate, if desired. For shiny
  glaze, store cake at room temp until serving time.
  
  This is from the back of the Ghirardelli Chocolate bar. There is a
  cookbook offer on the package also: Over 150 pages filled with
  delicious and original recipes. To order, send your name, address,
  zip code and $7 check or money order payable to Ghirardelli and
  addressed to:
  
  Ghirardelli Chocolate Company 1111-139 th Avenue, San Leandro, CA
  94578-2671 Please allow 6-8 weeks for delivery. Offer good only in the
  United States.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Decadant Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Boiling water
      3 oz Unsweetened chocolate
    1/2 c  Sweet butter
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      2 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs, separated
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 c  Sour cream
      2 c  Less 2 tablespoons flour
      1 ts Baking powder
           Icing:
      2 tb Butter
    1/4 c  Semi-sweet chocolate chips
      6 tb Heavy cream
  1 1/4 c  Powdered sugar
      1 ts Vanilla extract
 
  Servings:
  
  Ing     Quan    Item **
  
  *< Directions >*
  
  chop up chocolate, butter and put them in boiling water. meltting
  them. add vanilla, sugar, egg yolks, baking powder, flour, baking
  soda, sour cream. fold in egg whites.  put in tube pan.  bake at 350
  degrees for 40-50 minutes.  put on icing.
  
  icing: combine all ingredients and put on low heat.  stir constantly.
  cool. it will thicken.  put on topof cake and let drizzle down sides.
  
  Courtesey of we're cooking now posted by: Paul Guido
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Wreath Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Entertain
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      3 c  All-purpose flour
      1 tb Baking powder
      1 tb Baking soda
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      3 c  Sugar
      3 c  Water
      6 oz Semisweet chocolate;
           -finely chopped
      1 lb Unsalted butter; softened
      3    Large eggs; lightly beaten
  2 1/4 c  Confectioners' sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
           -Few drops green food colori
           Fresh raspberries, dried
           -cranberries, or cherries,
           -for garnish
 
  Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Butter and flour a 10-inch tube pan
  with a nonremovable bottom. In a large bowl, sift together the flour,
  baking powder, baking soda, and salt. In a medium pot, combine the
  sugar and water and bring them to a boil. Remove the pot from the
  heat and stir in the chocolate and 1 stick of butter. When the
  chocolate and butter have completely melted, whisk the mixture to
  combine completely. Whisk in the beaten eggs. Pour about half the
  chocolate mixture into the dry ingredients and whisk vigorously to
  thoroughly combine the ingredients and remove any lumps. Working
  quickly, add the remaining chocolate mixture and whisk to combine.
  Pour the batter into the prepared pan and bake for about 60 minutes,
  until a cake tester inserted in the center comes out clean. Let the
  cake cool in the pan for about 15 minutes, then turn out onto a rack
  to cool completely. In a medium bowl, cream together the remaining 3
  sticks of butter and the confectioners' sugar, until light and
  fluffy. Remove 1/3 cup of the icing, place in a small bowl, and color
  it with a few drops of the green food coloring. Put the remaining
  icing in a pot, add the vanilla. Over low heat, stir the icing until
  it becomes a pourable consistency. (If it overheats, causing the
  butter to spearate, put the icing in the refrigerator to chill and
  stir to bring it back together.) Pour the icing over the cooled cake
  so that it drips down the center and outside. Cluster the red berries
  in groups of 3 on top of the cake. Fill the green icing into a pastry
  bag fitted with a leaf tip and pipe a few leaves around each cluster
  of berries. Serves 12 to 16. Source:"An Edible Christmas" (A Treasury
  of Recipes for the Holiday) by Irena Chalmers.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Fudge Cake (A. K. A. Death By Chocolate)
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     10 oz Baker's semi-sweet chocolate
           -(do not substitute)
    1/2 c  Lightly salted butter
      6 lg Eggs, separated, at room
           -temperature
      1 c  Granulated sugar
      2    To 4 tsp creme de cacao,
           -Kahlua or dark rum
    1/2 ts Vanilla
           Butter and powdered cocoa
           -for the pan
           Frosting:
      1 c  Sour cream at room
           -temperature
     14 oz Baker's semi-sweet chocolate
           -(do not substitute)
 
  Cake:
  
  Place oven rack in lower third of the oven, and preheat oven to 375
  degrees.  Butter an 8 inch springform pan, and coat with powdered
  cocoa.
  
  Melt chocolate and butter in a double boiler over hot, but *not
  boiling*, water. (don't rush this step, chocolate burns easily)
  
  Beat egg yolks in a lg mixer bowl at high speed, gradually adding 3/4
  c of the granulated sugar.  Beat until yolk mixture is pale yellow
  and thick, 4 to 6 minutes.  Add melted chocolate mixture to the yolk
  mixture. Beat until completely smooth.  Add vanilla and liquor of
  your choice. Beat until blended.
  
  Beat egg whites in mdm mixer bowl at high speed until soft peaks form.
  Gradually beat remaining 1/4 c granulated sugar into whites; continue
  beating until stiff but not dry peaks form. Fold whites *gently* but
  thoroughly into chocolate mixture.  Pour batter evenly into pan;
  smooth top.
  
  Bake 15 minutes.  Reduce oven to 350 degrees; bake another 15 minutes.
  Reduce oven temp to 250; bake 30 minutes longer (total baking time is
  1 hour).  Turn off oven; prop open oven door and allow cake to remain
  in oven for 30 minutes.  Remove cake from oven and cover top with
  damp paper towelling; let stand 5 minutes.
  
  Remove towelling and cool cake completely.  Dome of cake will crack
  and collapse; this is normal - press top of cake down lightly to
  smooth top. Remove springform and transfer cake to serving platter.
  
  To make the frosting:
  
  Melt chocolate in double boiler over hot but not boiling water. Using
  a wooden spoon, mix in sour cream.  Pour over the cake. Let cool and
  harden.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Fudge Icing (For Plain Cake)
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Minus 1 TBSP rich milk
           Remove from heat and stir in
           -until dissolved:
      2 c  Sugar
    1/8 ts Salt
      2 oz Grated chocolate
 
  Re: Chocolate Fudge Icing
  
  This icing recipe is a candy recipe with milk added to make it  into
  frosting.
  
  Bring to a boil in a large heavy pan:
  
  Bring to a boil and cook covered 2-3 minutes until the steam  washes
  down from the sides of the pan any crystals which may have  formed.
  Uncover, redice heat and cook without stirring to soft-ball  stage,
  238 degrees. When nearing 238, there is a fine  overall  bubbling
  with, simultaneously, a coarser patter, as though the fine  bubbled
  areas were being pulled down for quilting into the  coarser  ones.
  Remove from heat without jostling or stirring.  Cool the  candy  to
  110. You may hasten this process by placing the hot pan in a larger
  pan of cold water until the bottom of the pan has cooled.  Add: 2 4
  TBSP butter
  
  Beat fudge partially.  Add: 1 tsp vanilla
  
  Then beat until it begins to lose its sheen.  At this point the drip
  from the spoon, when you flip it over, holds its shape against  the
  bottom of the spoon.  Quickly add: 1/2 1 c. broken nut meats
  
  Pour  the  fudge into a buttered pan.  Cut into  squares  before  it
  hardens.  To  use  fudge for centers, beat until  thick,  knead  and
  shape.
  
  For chocolate fudge icing, the book says to:
  
  Use in all: 1 c. milk
  
  Beat until the icing is of the right consistency to be spread.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Frosting
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Milk
      1 tb Butter <could be tsp, but I
           -think it's T.)
      1 ts Vanilla
      2    Sq. chocolate
 
  RE: Chocolate Frosting DATE: 04-08-91 AREA: COOKING
  
  CONTAINS RECIPE
  
  Grandma Ruby's Famous Chocolate Birthday Frosting
  
  Beat when cool.
  
  I suppose you melt all this in a double boiler...
  
  If any frosting experts recognize that this is missing a crucial step,
  please inform me. I haven't made this yet, but will as soon as an
  occasion comes up...
  
  From the files of Grandma Ruby Williams. Handwritten.
  
  Valerie Whittle
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Mosaic Fruit Tart
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 8 servings
 
--------------------CHOCOLATE TART CRUST-------------------------
      4 oz Ghirardelli Semi-Sweet
           -Chocolate
    1/2 c  Powdered sugar
    1/2 c  Slivered almonds
    1/2 c  Unsifted flour
    1/2 c  Cold butter, cut up
    1/8 ts Salt
      1    Egg
      1 ts Vanilla

-------------------CHOCOLATE TART FILLING------------------------
    1/2 c  Butter, softened
    1/2 c  Powdered sugar
      1    Egg
      4 oz Ghirardelli Semi-Sweet
           -Chocolate
      3 tb Heavy whipping cream
      1 ts Vanilla or Grand Marnier
           Fresh fruit: strawberries,
           -kiwi, bananas,
           Green grapes, oranges, etc.
    1/4 c  Apricot jam
 
  Servings: 8
  
  DIRECTIONS: For crust: Place broken chocolate pieces, sugar and
  almonds into bowl of processor or blender. Process for about 20 to 25
  seconds until the mixture is like powder. On top of chocolate mixture
  in food processor, spread flour, butter and salt. Process 15 to 20
  pulses or until butter is in very fine pieces. (Or butter may be cut
  into flour by hand using a pastry cutter, then combined with
  chocolate.) Add egg and vanilla. Pulse about 15 times or stir lightly
  until mixture sticks together when pinched with fingers. On plastic
  wrap, knead a few times to bring dough together to form a ball;
  flatten to 8". It is easier to use your fingers to pat the dough into
  tart pan than to roll dough. Use a 10 1/2" flat tart pan with 1"
  fluted sides. Bake in center of oven at 350-F for 15 to 18 minutes or
  until baked shell springs back when touched. (Do not overbake.) Cool.
  Remove outside ring of pan. Crust may be prepared a day in advance,
  if desired. (MY NOTES: this crust seemed too wet before baking, but
  turned out fine after about 16 or 17 minutes baking time. It was like
  a brownie crust.)
  
  Chocolate tart filling: In small mixer bowl, beat butter with sugar
  and egg; beat until fluffy. Melt broken chocolate in double boiler,
  stirring constantly, or microwave on medium for 2 1/2 to 3 minutes.
  Add warm chocolate to creamed mixture and beat well. Mix in cream and
  vanilla, beating until thick and creamy. Spread filling over baked
  Chocolate Tart Crust. While filling is still soft, artistically
  arrange fruit on top. For fruit glaze, strain apricot jam. With
  pastry brush, use glaze to cover pieces of fruit and top edge of
  crust. Chill about 2 hours. Decorate with chocolate curls, if
  desired. Let stand 30 minutes at room temperature before serving.
  
  Source: Recipes from Ghirardelli Chocolate Company of San Francisco
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Sour Cream Frosting
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 9 servings
 
    1/2 c  Sour cream
  3 1/2 c  Powdered sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 oz Ghirardelli Unsweetened
           -Chocolate, melted
 
  Servings: Makes enough for 9 x 13" cake
  
  DIRECTIONS: Beat sour cream with sugar and vanilla until smooth. Mix
  in melted chocolate. Spread over 9 by 13" cake.
  
  Source: Recipes from Ghirardelli Chocolate Company of San Francisco
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate San Andreas Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8 oz Semi-Sweet Chocolate,
           -Coarsely Chopped (8
           -Squares)
      6 oz Unsweetened Chocolate,
           -Coarsley Chopped (6
           -Squares)
    3/4 c  Unsalted Butter Cut Up
      9 lg Eggs, At Room Temperature
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla Extract
      2 tb Unbleached All Purpose Flour
           Confectioners' Sugar
 
  Yield: 16 Servings
  
  NOTE:  This very densed chocolate cake is named after the famous
  California fault becaus it forms big cracks as it bakes and cools.
  
  Adjust the oven rack to the lower third of the oven.  Prehat the oven
  to 350 degrees F.  Butter and flour a 10-inch springform pan.
  
  Heat the chocolates and butter in a double boiler over simmering
  water, stirring frequently, until melted.  Remove from the heat and
  cool to room temperature, stirring occasionally. about 25 minutes.
  
  Beat the eggs in a large mixer bowl until frothy.  Gradually add the
  sugar and beat until mixture becomes thick and lemon-colored and
  ribbon forms when the beaters are lifted, about 10 minutes.  Add the
  vanilla. Gradually add the chocolate mixture and beat well.  Fold in
  the flour and pour the batter into the prepared pan.
  
  Bake 45 to 50 minutes, until the top of the cake begins to crack. Cool
  completely in the pan on a wire rack, then wrap and refrigerate
  overnight. Let stand at room temperature for 1 hour before serving.
  Remove the sides of the pan and place on a serving plate.  Sprinkle
  the top with confectioners' sugar.  For best results, cut the cake
  with a knife dipped in warm water, wiping off the knife between cuts.
  
  Each Serving Contains:
  
  CAL     PRO     FAT     CARB    SODIUM  CHOL ** 320 5 G 22 G 31 G 37
  Mg 143 Mg
  
  From The Ladies Home Journal April 1991
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Icing
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Sugar
      4 tb Chocolate
      3 tb Milk
      1 tb Water
 
  Notes:  From Grandma Ruby's (Williams) files.  Newspaper clipping.
  Looks old.  Also on clipping are Confectioners' Icing and Chocolate
  Frosting. This chocolate icing is recommend for frosting an Angel
  Food Cake.
  
  Mix chocolate or cocoa with milk and water combined and heat to
  boiling. Then add sugar.  Boil five minutes, stirring occasionally.
  Spread on cake that is cold.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Frosting Ii
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Milk
      1 tb Butter
      1 ts Vanilla
      2    Squares chocolate
 
  Notes: Handwritten on inside cover of The Boston Cooking School
  Cookbook Possibly Great-Grandma Davis's recipe.  1920's at the
  _latest_ Posted by: Valerie Whittle
  
  Beat when cool.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Surprise Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 12 servings
 
     12 oz Cream Cheese, softened
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1    Egg
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      1 pk Chocolate Cake Mix (18.25 oz
           -pkg)
    1/2 c  Semisweet Chocolate
           -Mini-morsels
 
  Heat oven to 350.  Butter and flour a 12-cup Bundt pan.
  
  In a small mixing bowl, using an electric mixer, beat cream cheese and
  sugar until smooth. Add egg and vanilla; beat until blended and set
  aside.
  
  Prepare cake mix as directed; fold in chocolate morsels.  Pour
  chocolate batter into prepared pan; evenly cover with cream cheese
  mixture.  Bake until a wooden pick inserted in the center of the cake
  comes out clean, 45 to 55 minutes. Cool on a wire rack for 25
  minutes. Remove from pan; cool completely.  Dust with confectioners
  sugar.  Serve with whipped cream and raspberries, if desired.
  
  Serves 12
  
  Source:  Reader's Digest, June 1991
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate D**Nation
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    2/3 c  Butter or margarine
      4 oz Semisweet chocolate
      2 c  Sugar
      4    Eggs, well beaten
  1 1/2 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Vanilla
           Filling:
     12 oz Semisweet chocolate
    1/4 c  Strong coffee
      2    Eggs, separated
    1/4 c  Coffee liqueur
      3 tb Sugar
    1/4 c  Whipping cream
           Chocolate Glaze:
      4 oz Semisweet chocolate
      3 tb Strong coffee
           Chocolate Curls (optional)
 
  Quan     Measure    Item ** Brownie Shell:
  
  *<* Directions *>* To make shell: Melt butter with chocolate in
  saucepan over low heat. Remove from heat and add sugar and eggs.
  Combine flour, baking powder and salt and beat into chocolate
  mixture. Add vanilla. Line greased 15 X 10-inch jelly-roll pan with
  waxed paper. Pour in batter and spread evenly. Bake at 350 F 12 to 15
  minutes or until cake springs back when lightly touched. Cake should
  be soft, not crisp. Turn out on rack and cool.
  
  Filling: Combine chocolate and coffee in top of double boiler and
  melt over hot water. Remove from heat. Beat egg yolks until pale
  yellow and stir in some of chocolate mixture. Return to chocolate in
  pan and stirring until smooth. Gradually stir in liqueur and cool.
  Beat egg whites until foamy. Gradually add sugar and beat until
  stiff. Whip cream until stiff. Fold cream into cooled chocolate
  mixture, then fold in egg whites.
  
  Invert brownie shell on to towel and peel off paper. Line bottom and
  sides of greased 9-inch square baking dish with brownie shell,
  cutting strips for sides and 9-inch square for bottom. Turn filling
  into cake-lined dish and cover with plastic wrap. Chill 3 to 4 hours
  or until firm.
  
  Glaze: Combine chocolate and coffee in top of double boiler and belt
  over hot water.
  
  Invert chilled dessert onto serving platter. Coat with chocolate
  glaze. Let glaze set and decorate with chocolate curls. Cut into very
  thin slices to serve. ** From the Collection of Tia L. Darrow...
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Cake Florence
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Sifted cake flour
      2 ts Baking powder
      1 ds Salt
    1/2 c  Butter
  1 1/2 c  + 1/2 c sugar
      4    Eggs, separated
      4 oz Unsweetened chocolate,
           -melted
      1 ts Vanilla
  1 1/3 c  Milk
    1/4 c  Tia Maria
           Chopped Nuts
           Preheat oven to 350 degrees.
           -Butter and flour 2 9" pans.
 
  Sift flour with baking powder and salt.  Cream butter; add 1 1/2 c of
  the sugar gradually and blend until light and fluffy.  Beat in egg
  yolks.  Add chocolate and vanilla.  Add flour alternately with milk,
  mixing well after each adition. Beat egg whites until stiff but not
  dry;  add 1/2 c sugar and fold into batter.  Turn into pans and bake
  35 minutes.  Cool.
  
  Pour 2 Tbsp Tia Maria over each layer and frost with Florence icing.
  Dust sides with chopped nuts.
  
  Florence Icing
  
  4 Tbsp butter 2 c sugar 1/2 c milk 2 oz bitter chocolate Melt butter
  in a saucepan; add sugar and milk.  Bring to a boil stirring
  constantly then cook over low heat 10 minutes or until temperature
  reaches 236 degrees. or 115 c.  Melt chocolate; add Tia Maria.  Stir
  into butter mixture. Remove from heat and beat icing until thick
  enough to spread.
  
  If icing hardens before cake is frosted, soften with a little hot
  water.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Damnation
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    2/3 c  Butter
      4 oz Semisweet chocolate
      2 c  Sugar
      4    Eggs, well beaten
  1 1/2 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Vanilla
           Filling:
     12 oz Semisweet chocolate
    1/4 c  Strong coffee
      2    Eggs, separated
    1/4 c  Coffee liqueur
      3 tb Sugar
    1/4 c  Whipping cream
           Chocolate Glaze:
      4 oz Semisweet chocolate
      3 tb Strong coffee
 
  Brownie Shell:
  
  Chocolate Curls (optional)
  
  To make shell: Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Line a greased jelly roll
  pan with wax paper. Melt butter with chocolate in saucepan over low
  heat. Remove from heat and add sugar and eggs. Combine flour, baking
  powder and salt and beat into chocolate mixture. Add vanilla. Pour
  batter in pan and spread evenly. Bake 12 to 15 minutes or until cake
  springs back when lightly touched. Cake should be soft, not crisp.
  Turn out on rack and cool.
  
  Filling: Combine chocolate and coffee in top of double boiler and
  melt over hot water. Remove from heat. Beat egg yolks until pale
  yellow and stir in some of chocolate mixture. Return to chocolate in
  pan and stirring until smooth. Gradually stir in liqueur and cool.
  Beat egg whites until foamy. Gradually add sugar and beat until
  stiff. Whip cream until stiff. Fold cream into cooled chocolate
  mixture, then fold in egg whites.
  
  Invert brownie shell on to towel and peel off paper. Line bottom and
  sides of greased 9-inch square baking dish with brownie shell,
  cutting strips for sides and 9-inch square for bottom. Turn filling
  into cake-lined dish and cover with plastic wrap. Chill 3 to 4 hours
  or until firm.
  
  Glaze: Combine chocolate and coffee in top of double boiler and melt
  over hot water.
  
  Invert chilled dessert onto serving platter. Coat with chocolate
  glaze. Let glaze set and decorate with chocolate curls. Cut into very
  thin slices to serve.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Cake with Grand Marnier
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 10 servings
 
     14 oz Semi-sweet chocolate,
           -chopped
    3/4 c  Plus 2 tbsp unsalted butter
     10    Egg yolks
      1 c  Granulated sugar
      1 tb Vanilla extract
      1 tb Grand Marnier (orange
           -liqueur)
      1 ts Lemon juice
     10    Egg whites
    1/2 c  Granulated sugar
           Powdered sugar
      2 c  Heavy cream, whipped
 
  Chocolate Cake with Grand Marnier
  
  Melt chocolate and butter in double boiler. Set aside to cool
  slightly. Beat yolks and 1 c sugar until smooth; stir in vanilla,
  Grand Marnier and lemon juice. Blend in chocolate mixture.
  
  Beat egg whites in large mixer bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually
  add 1/2 c sugar; beating until stiff peaks form. Stir 1 c of whites
  into chocolate mixture, then fold in remaining whites.
  
  Pour batter into greased and floured 10 or 12 inch springform pan.
  Bake in preheated 250 oven 2 1/2 hours. (That's what is says, two and
  one-half hours.) Cool completely on rack before removing pan.
  Sprinkle cake with powdered sugar. Serve with whipped cream. Serves
  10 to 12.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Layer Cake with Date Filling
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 12 servings
 
    1/4 c  Sugar.
      4 oz Unsweetened chocolate : 1
           -tbsp. all purp. flour
  2 1/2 c  Sifted cake flour : Speck of
           -Salt
      2 ts Baking powder : 1/2 cup plus
           -2 tbsp. chopped black
    3/4 ts Salt : walnuts or pecans
    1/2 c  (1 stick) butter, softened :
           -1 tsp. vanilla extract
      2 c  Granulated sugar : FUDGE
           -FROSTING
      2    Eggs : 1 pound
           -confectioners' sar
      2 ts Vanilla extract : 1/3 cup
           -plus 2 tbsp. cocoa powder
      2 c  Buttermilk, at room temp. :
           -1/4 cup (1/2 stick) butter,
           -softened
           : DATE FILLING
           -: 1 egg white
      1 c  Milk : 1 tsp. vanilla
           -extract
    1/2 c  Chopped dates : 1/4 tsp.
           -salt
      1    Egg : 5 tbsp. evaporated
           -mimlk
 
  Serves 12
  
  "The date filling makes this special, and the frosting is unusually
  good. Because the cake has a custard filling, it needs to be kept
  refrigerated."
  
  Preheat oven to 350 F.  Melt the chocolate in the top of a double
  boiler over barely simmering water (or in the microwave).  Sift the
  flour, baking powder, and salt together.  In a large mixer bowl,
  cream the butter and sugar until the mixture is fluffy.  Add the
  eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition.  Blend in the
  melted chocolate and vanilla. Add the dry ingredients to the
  chocolate mixture, alternating with the buttermilk and beginning and
  ending with the flour. Do not overbeat.
  
  Pour the batter into three 8 inch buttered cake layer pans.  Bake for
  25 to 30 minutes, or until the cake has shrunk away a bit from the
  sides of the pans and the tops spring back when touched with your
  finger. Allow to stand in pans for 10 minutes, then turn out onto a
  rack to cool. While the cakes are cooling, prepare the filling and
  frosting.
  
  To make the filling, heat the milk and dates in the top of a double
  boiler over hot water until the milk is scalded.  Beat the egg, then
  add the sugar, flour, and salt; beat again.  Add 1/2 cup of the hot
  milk mixture to the egg mixture, then stir back into the pan and cook
  for 3 minutes, until thick, stirring with a rubber spatula.  Let
  cool.  Add the nuts, and vanilla. Refrigerate for 1-1/2 hours before
  filling the cake.
  
  To make the frosting, combine all the ingredients in a large mixer
  bowl. Beat on high speed for 1 minute, or until the frosting is light
  and creamy.
  
  To assemble, place 1 cake layer on a large plate and cover to within
  1/4 inch of the edge with half the chilled filling.  Top with another
  cake layer and the remaining filling mixture.  Finish with the last
  cake layer. Frost the sides and top of the cake with the fudge
  frosting forming swirls on the top with a knife.  Refrigerate, but
  bring to room temperature before serving.
  
  From: Cooking From Quilt Country Shared By: Pat Stockett
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Hazelnut Brandy Torte with Biscotti
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     11 oz Semisweet baking chocolate
    1/2 lb Butter, room temp
      2    Eggs
    1/3 c  Sugar
      3 tb Brandy
      7 oz PEAK FREEN SWEET-MEAL
           -BISCUITS", coarsely
           -broken
    1/2 c  Whole toasted hazelnuts
 
  In top of double boiler melt chocolate and butter together.  In large
  bowl, with electric mixer, beat eggs and sugar at high speed until
  lemon colored.
  
  Add the chocolate/butter mixture and beat at medium speed until the
  butter is completely mixed in. Add the brandy & mix throughly. Pour
  the mixture over the biscuits.
  
  Mix well.  Line a 9" cake pan with plastic wrap.  Pour in the mixture
  and cover with plastic wrap. Freeze until ready to serve.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Chip Butter Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      8 oz Butter or Margarine
      2 c  Sugar
      4    Eggs, separated
  2 2/3 c  Sifted Cake Flour
      2 ts Baking Powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Milk
      2 ts Vanilla
      5 oz German Sweet Chocolate Bars
 
  Cream butter and sugar together. Add yolks one at a time, beating well
  after each addition. Add sifted dry ingredients, alternating with
  milk and vanilla. Add in thirds, beating until smooth after each
  addition. Grate chocolate coarsly, reserving 1/3 cup for the topping.
  Beat whites until stiff and fold into batter, add remaining chocolate
  to batter and mix. Pour in a greased and floured 9x13 pan. Sprinkle
  the top with the 1/3 cup of grated chocolate. Bake in a preheated
  350oF oven for 40 minutes.
  
  Source: "The Yankee Kitchen" 03-18-93 (#2) [Bea Roe]
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Supreme Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 1 servings
 
----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
    1/2 c  Butter
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      4    Egg Yolks
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 oz Unsweetened Chocolate
      5 tb Water
  1 3/4 c  Flour
      2 ts Baking Powder
    1/2 c  Milk
      4    Egg Whites

-----------------------CUSTER FILLING----------------------------
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Flour
    1/4 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Milk
      2    Eggs, slightly beaten
      1 ts Vanilla

--------------------------FROSTING-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Butter
      1 lb Confectioners Sugar
      1    Egg
      3 oz Unsweetened Chocolate,
           -melted and cooled
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/8 ts Salt
      1 tb Milk
 
  *** Cake ***
  
  Cream the butter and sugar until fluffy. Add the yolks and vanilla,
  beat well. Heat chocolate and water, stir until smooth. Add to the
  cream mixture. Sift dry ingredients and to the cream mixture
  alternately with the milk, beginning and ending with dry ingredients.
  Beat whites until stiff, fold in batter. Place in a greased and
  floured 10-inch round pan. Bake in a preheated 350oF oven for 30-35
  minutes, until test done. When cake is cooled, cut carefully into 3
  layers.
  
  *** Filling ***
  
  Combine flour, sugar and salt. Gradually stir in the milk and cook
  over medium heat stirring constantly until thickened. Cook 2 more
  minutes. Stir a little of the hot mixture into the egg yolks and
  return to pan and cook 1 minute more. DO NOT BOIL. Add vanilla and
  cool completely. Spread between the layers.
  
  *** Chocolate Butter Cream Frosting ***
  
  Cream the butter and add 1/3 of the sugar, beat well. Add all
  remaining ingredients except the sugar, beat until smooth. Gradually
  add remaining sugar and beat until smooth. Spread on tope and sides
  of the cake. Refrigerate until ready to serve.
  
  Source: "The Yankee Kitchen" 03-17-93 (#2) [Carmella]
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Board Game Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 10 servings
 
    1/2 c  Margarine
    1/2 ts Vanilla
  2 1/2 c  Flour
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Baking soda
    3/4 c  Sour cream
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Milk
      2    Eggs
      3 oz Unsweetened chocolate, melte
           -
           Creamy rum frosting; recipe
 
  Beat margarine and sugar until fluffy. Blend in sour cream, eggs,
  chocolate and vanilla. Add combined dry ingredients alternately with
  milk, mixing well after each addition. Pour into greased and floured
  13 x 9" baking pan. Bake @ 350 degrees, 40 to 45 minutes or until
  wooden toothpick inserted in center comes out clean. Cool. Frost with
  Creamy Rum Frosting. Decorate as desired.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Praline Layer Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine
    1/4 c  Whipping cream
      1 c  Brown sugar; firmly packed
    3/4 c  Pecans; coarsely chopped
      1    Pillsbury plus devil's food
           -ake mix; pkg
  1 1/4 c  Water
    1/3 c  Oil
      3    Eggs
  1 3/4 c  Whipping cream
    1/4 c  Powdered sugar
    1/4 ts Vanilla
           Pecans; whole, if desired
           Chocolate curls, if desired
 
  Heat oven to 325 degrees. In small heavy saucepan, combine butter,
  1/4 cup whipping cream and brown sugar. Cook over low heat, just
  until butter is melted, stirring occasionally. Pour into 2 - 8 or 9"
  round cake pans; sprinkle evenly with chopped pecans. In large bowl,
  combine cake mix, water, oil and eggs at low speed until moistened;
  beat 2 minutes at highest speed. Carefully, spoon batter over pecan
  mixture. Bake @ 325 degrees 35 to 45 minutes or until cake springs
  back when touched lightly in center. Cool 5 minutes. Remove from
  pans. Cool completely. In small bowl, beat 1 3/4 cups whipping cream
  until soft peaks form. Blend in powdered sugar and vanilla; beat
  until stiff peaks form. To assemble cake, place 1 layer on serving
  plate, praline side up. Spread with 1/2 of whipped cream. Top with
  second layer, praline side up; spread top with remaining whipping
  cream. Garnish with whole pecans and chocolate curls, if desired.
  Store in refrigerator.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Chocolate Chip Cake    (Plain Jane)
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 pk Devil's Food Cake Mix
           -(Duncan Hines)
      1 pk Pudding, Instant - Chocolate
           -(4 oz)
      4    Egg
    3/4 c  Oil
    1/2 c  Water, warm
    1/2 pt Sour cream
     12 oz Chocolate Chips
           Confectioner's Sugar
 
  Calories     per serving:             Number of Servings:   8 Fat
  grams per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: 1:00 Cholesterol
  per serving: Marks:   E
  
  *DIRECTIONS*
  
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Stir together first six ingredients. Add
  the chips at the last moment so they won't get too crushed. Pour
  batter into a greased and floured bundt pan.  Bake at 350 degrees for
  about 60 minutes or until a toothpick comes out clean.  Cool and
  sprinkle top with confectioner's sugar.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Quick Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 c  Flour
      1 c  Sugar
      1 ts Baking Powder
    1/2 c  Butter
     16 oz Chocolate Syrup
      1 ts Vanilla
      4    Egg
 
  Calories     per serving:             Number of Servings:  12 Fat
  grams per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: 0:45 Cholesterol
  per serving: Marks:   E
  
  *DIRECTIONS*
  
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees. In a large bowl, mix all ingredients at
  low until dry ingredients are moistened and then at medium until
  smooth. Pour batter into 2 well-greased, 8-inch round layer cake pans
  or one 9- x 13-inch pan. Bake for 25 minutes for layers or 30 minutes
  for large cake or until toothpick inserted near center comes out
  clean. When cool, frost with desired frosting.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Chip Coffee Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine
    1/3 c  Sugar
      1 ts Salt
      2 pk Active dry yeast
  3 1/3 c  Siften a-p flour
      3    Eggs
    1/2 c  Chocolate chips
 
  Cake part:
  
  Generously grease a 10-inch tube pan; set aside. Measure milk and
  butter into saucepan; heat until warm. Meanwhile mix sugar, salt,
  yeast, and 1 cup flour. Add liquid to dry ingredients. Beat for 2
  minutes at medium speed of elec. mixer, scraping bowl occasionally.
  Add 1 cup of flour and eggs. Beat on high speed for 2 minutes,
  scraping bowl occasionally. Stir in remaining 1 1/2 cups of flour and
  chocolate chips. Turn dough into prepared pan; sprinkle with coffee
  topping (recipe below). Cover pan and let dough rise in a warm place
  until doubled, approximately 1 hour. Bake in 400 oven for 35 to 40
  minutes or until done. Turn out of pan immediately.
  
  Coffee topping:
  
  1/2 cup siften flour 1/2 cup sugar 1/2 cup butter or margarine 1/2 cup
  chopped walnuts (optional) 1/3 cup chocolate chips 1 tsp instant
  coffee 1 tsp vanilla
  
  Combine flour, sugar, and butter. Rub together with the fingers, to
  make coarse crumbs. Add and blend in the nuts, chocolate chips,
  instant coffee, and vanilla.
  
  Recipe from Hayden Flour Mills of Tempe, AZ, 1978.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Almond Pound Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 16 servings
 
    1/2 c  Finely chopped almonds
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      4 oz Butter, melted
      4    Eggs
      4 oz Bitter chocolate, melted
  1 1/2 ts Almond extract
      2 c  Flour
      1 c  Corn meal
      1 ts Salt (optional)
    1/2 ts Baking powder
      1 c  Milk
 
  Chocolate Almond Pound Cake
  
  This recipe came from the echo in my early days on it.  I didn't
  record who posted it.
  
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees.  Generously grease a 12 c bundt pan.
  Coat sides with almonds.
  
  In a large bowl, beat sugar and butter until light and fluffy.  Add
  eggs, one at a time, mixing well after each egg. Stir in chocolate
  and almond extract.
  
  Combine flour, corn meal, salt and baking powder.  Add alternately
  with milk to chocolate mixture, mixing at low speed until well
  blended. Spoon into pan.
  
  Bake 50-60 minutes.  Cool 10 minutes.  remove from pan and cool on
  rack.
  
  Serves 16
  
  *Ellen*
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Mint Truffle Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 8 servings
 
     12 oz Semisweet chocolate, cut up
    1/2 c  Unslated butter
      1 c  Sugar
      2    Egg yolks
    1/8 ts Mint extract
      6    Egg whites
 
  Chocolate Mint Truffle Cake
  
  powdered sugar Bourbon Creme Anglaise (recipe follows)
  
  Melt chocolate and butter in double boiler over low heat until
  chocolate melts in small bowl. Whisk together sugar, egg yolks, and
  mint extract until light lemon color. Add to chocolate mixture. Stir
  until smooth. Whip egg whites to soft peaks. Gently fold egg whites
  into chocolate mixture. Pour mixture into buttered 9-in springform
  pan. Bake at 400 degrees 25 minutes.  Cool completely, then remove
  from pan. Dust with powdered sugar. To serve, place small amount of
  Bourbon Creme Anglaise on dessert plates. Slice cake in 8 wedges and
  place each slice on top of sauce. Garnish with mint sprigs if
  desired. Serves 8.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Truffle Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     16 oz Semi-sweet chocolate
    1/2 c  Sweet butter
  1 1/2 ts Flour
  1 1/2 ts Sugar
      1 ts Hot water
      4    Eggs, separated
 
  Chocolate Truffle Cake
  
  Oil bottom of 8 or 9-inch springform pan.  Melt chocolate and butter
  ( I did this in a saucepan, although the original recipe calls for it
  being done in a 200-degree oven.). Add flour, sugar, and water; blend
  well. Add egg yolks one at a time, beating well after each addition.
  In a separate bowl ( a metal one!) beat egg whites until stiff. Fold
  gently into chocolate mixture. Turn into prepared pan and bake for 15
  minutes in middle of 425 degree oven (I found that in the 9-inch pan,
  I needed to extend this to 25 minutes for it to be completely
  cooked.). Let cake cool completely. Sift or sprinkle powdered sugar
  over top of cooled cake.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Lard Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Eggs--seperated
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Lard
  1 3/4 c  Sifted cake flour
      1 c  Sugar
    3/4 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  PLUS 2 tblspns buttermilk
      2    Sqares unsweetened
           -chocolate--melted
 
  Chocolate Lard Cake
  
  Glossy Fudge Frosting (To Follow)
  
  Beat egg whites till frothy. Gradually beat in 1/2 cup sugar. Continue
  beating till very stiff and glossy.  In another bowl, stir lard to
  soften. Add sifted dry ingredients and 3/4 cup buttermilk. Stir to
  moisten dry ingredients; then beat 1 minute, medium speed on mixer.
  Scrape sides and bottom of bowl constantly.  Add remaining
  buttermilk, egg yolks and melted chocolate. Beat 1 minute, scraping
  bowl constantly.  Fold in egg whites. Pour into 2 greased and floured
  8-inch round layer cake pans or a 13 X 9 X 2 inch pan. Bake in
  moderate oven at 350 F. for 30 to 35 minutes. Cool on rack 10
  minutes. Remove from pans. Brush crumbs from cake while warm to
  faciliate frosting. Frost with Glossy Fudge Frosting.
  
  GLOOSY FUDGE FROSTING: 2 tbslpns butter/margerine, 1 (6 oz.) pkg.
  semisweet chocolate pieces, 1/3 Basic sugar syrup (to Follow).
  
  Melt butter over hot (not boiling) water. Remove from heat before the
  water boils.  Add chocolate pieces to butter over hot water and stir
  until melted, blended and thick. Add Basic Sugar Syrup gradually,
  stirring after each adtion until blended. Mixture will become glossy
  and smooth. Remove from hot water and cool until of a spreading
  consistency. Spread thinly over cake. Apply quickly by pouring a
  small amount at a time on top of cake; as it runs down on sides,
  spread with spatula. Frost top of cake last.
  
  BASIC SUGAR SYRUP: 2 cups sugar, 1 cup water.
  
  That;s it! You can refrigerate this syrup and keep it handy for
  frosting or to sweeten beverages.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Nutmeg Cakeroll
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  All-purpose flour
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
      4    Eggs--seperated
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
    1/2 c  Sugar--divided
           Confectioner's sugar
           Chocolate leaves (recipe
           -below)
           Chocolate Nutmeg Filling:
      1    Envelope unflavored gelatin
  1 1/4 c  Nestle Toll House Semi-sweet
           -chocolate morsels--reserved
           From 12 oz. pkg.
      1 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
      1    Egg yolk
    2/3 c  Heavy cream
 
  Chocolate Sponge Cake: One 12 oz. pkg. (2 cups) Nestle Toll House
  Semi-sweet Chocolate Morsels--divided
  
  Cake:  Preheat oven to 375 F. Melt over hot (not boiling) water HALF
  CUP morsels; stir till smooth. Set aside.  Combine flour, baking
  powder and salt. Beat together egg yolks and vanilla till thick (5
  minutes). Gradually add 1/4 cup sugar, beating till sugar dissolves.
  Gradually add melted morsels, beat well.  Beat egg whites till soft
  peaks form. Gradually add remaining 1/4 cup sugar; beat till stiff
  peaks form.  Fold in chocolate mixture. Sprinkle with flour mixture;
  fold in.
  
  Spread evenly in greased and floured 15 X 10 X 1-inch pan.  Bake at
  375 degrees for 12 to 15 minutes.  Loosen cake; invert onto towel
  sprinkled with confectioner's sugar. Roll up cake (with towel)
  starting from the short side. Cool. seam-side down. Unroll; spread
  evenly with filling. Roll up (without towel). Sprinkle with
  confectioner's sugar. Top with chocolate leaves.
  
  Chocolate Nutmeg Filling:  In blender container combine 3 tblspns cold
  water and the gelatin; let stand for 2 minutes.  Add ONE THIRD CUP
  boiling water. Cover; blend on high speed till gelatin dissolves. Add
  1 1/4 cups morsels, sugar vanilla and nutmeg.  Cover; blend till
  smooth.  With the blender on LOW speed, add the egg yolk with cream.
  Add HALF CUP ice cubes (about 3); blend till mixture begins to
  thicken and ice cubes melt. Transfer to bowl; place in ice bath until
  mixture mounds (about 15 minutes).
  
  Chocolate Leaves: Melt over hot (not boiling water), the remaining
  1/4 cup morsels. With small spatula, coat underside of a dry mint
  leaf or silk leaf with chocolate.  Wipe off front of leaf. Place on
  waxed paper lined cookie-sheet; freeze till firm.  Peel leaf off
  chocolate leaf.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Cake with Yeast
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Butter
      2 c  Sugar
      3    Eggs separated
      3 oz Unsweetened chocolate,
           -melted
    1/2 pk Yeast
    1/4 c  Lukewarm water
      1 c  Milk
  2 3/4 c  Sifted cake flour
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Baking soda
      3 tb Hot water
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Preheat oven to 350.  Grease and flour 2 9" round pans.
  
  Dissolve yeast with 1 teaspoon sugar in 1/4 cup warm water. Dissolve
  baking powder in 3 Tablespoons hot water. Sift flour, baking powder
  and salt.
  
  Cream butter and sugar.  Add yolks, chocolate and yeast.  Mix well.
  Add flour mixture alternately with milk.  Add baking soda mixture and
  vanilla. Beat until smooth.  Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites.
  
  Pour into prepared pans.  Bake for 45 minutes.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Caramel Fudge Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 c  Cake flour
      2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine (1 cube)
      2 c  Granulated sugar
      3    Lg. eggs
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
      3 oz Unsweetened chocolate,
           -melted and cooled (see
           -note)
      1 c  Dairy sour cream
      1 c  Boiling water
           FILLING:
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine (1 cube)
      1    12 oz package caramels,
           -unwrapped
      1 cn Sweetened condensed milk
           -(not evaporated)
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Grease and flour a 9 by 13 cake pan. Set
  aside. Sift together the cake flour, baking soda and salt and set
  aside.
  
  Beat the butter and sugar together in a large mixing bowl. Blend in
  the eggs and beat until light and fluffy. Stir in the vanilla and
  melted chocolate. Alternately add the dry ingredients and the sour
  cream to the butter mixture. Beat well after each addition. Stir in
  boiling water.
  
  (Batter will be thin) Divide cake batter in half. Pour one half into
  the prepared cake pan. Bake 10 - 12 minutes, or until firm to the
  touch, and remove from the oven. Meanwhile, prepare the filling. Mix
  butter, caramels, and condensed milk in a sauce pan and melt over low
  heat, stirring often.
  
  Remove from the stove and pour the mixture over the baked half of the
  cake.
  
  Pour the remaining cake batter over the caramel mixture and return to
  the oven. Bake for 15 - 20 minutes or until firm to the touch. When
  cool, serve with ice cream, whipped cream or frost with your favorite
  chocolate frosting.
  
  NOTE: melt chocolate in double boiler over simmer (not boiling water)
  
  Makes 12 servings.
  
  Courtesy of: Joann Pierce
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Cake Ala Florence
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter
  1 3/4 c  Sifted cake flour
      2    Whole eggs
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      3 oz Unsweetened chocolate,
           -shaved
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    3/4 ts Baking soda
    3/4 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Boiling water
    1/3 c  Buttermilk
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Preheat oven 350 F.  Grease and flour 9x9x2 pan.
  
  Place chocolate in hot water.  Stir until melted.  Cool
  
  Sift dry ingredients into mixing bowl.  Drop on soft butter. Beat 2
  minutes at low speed.  Add all other ingredients and beat for 2
  minutes at low speed.
  
  Pour into prepared pan.  Bake 30-35 minutes
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Indulgence
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Jim Vorheis
     16 oz Semisweet chocolate
    3/4 c  Butter
    3/4 c  Powdered sugar
      1 tb All-purpose flour
      4 lg Egg yolks
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
      4 lg Egg whites, room temperature
      1 c  Sour cream
 
  In large saucepan, melt chocolate and butter together, then gradually
  add sugar and flour, stirring constantly with wire whisk. Add egg
  yolks, one at a time, mixing well after each. Stir in vanilla. Beat
  egg whites until stiff peaks form and fold into chocolate mixture.
  Pour all but 1 cup of mixture into buttered 8x8-inch pan. Add 1 cup
  sour cream to reserved 1 cup batter and spread evenly over top of
  mixture in pan.  Bake at 375 F for 25 minutes.  The center will not
  look done or set. Cool completely, cover and refrigerate for 4-6
  hours.  Cut into 1 1/2 inch squares with a hot knife. Individual
  pieces can be wrapped and frozen.
  
  Creme de Colorado Cookbook (1987) From the collection of Jim Vorheis
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Velvet
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 15 servings
 
  2 1/4 c  Unsifted flour
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/4 ts Baking powder
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      3    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Hellmann's Real Mayonnaise
      4    Squares (1 oz. each) Baker's
           -Unsweetened Chocolate,
           -melted
  1 1/3 c  Water
 
  Crunchy Coconut Topping (below)
  
  Grease and flour a 13" x 9" x 2" baking pan.  In bowl stir first 3
  ingredients; set aside.  In large bowl with mixer at high speed beat
  next 3 ingredients for 3 min. or until fluffy.  Reduce speed to low;
  beat in real mayonnaise and chocolate.  At low speed add flour
  mixture in 4 additions alternately with water, beating just until
  blended after each addition. Pour into pan.  Bake in 350 oven 45 min.
  or until tester comes out clean. Cool completely in pan.  Serves 15
  
  Crunchy Coconut Topping:  In saucepan, stirring constantly, bring 3/4
  cup firmly packed brown sugar and 1/4 cup margarine to boil over
  medium heat, boil 2 minutes.  Add 3 Tbsp. milk, 1-1/3 cups flaked
  coconut and 1/2 cup chopped walnuts.  Stirring constantly, boil 1
  minute.  Spread on top of cake.  Broil 6" from heat 3 minutes or
  until golden brown.  Cool
  
  From: Hellmann's Ad Shared By: Pat Stockett
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Mousse Cake (Part Two)
 Categories: Cakes, Toppings
      Yield: 1 servings
 
-----------------GANACHE ICING AND ASSEMBLY----------------------

-----------------FOR CHOCOLATE MOUSSE CAKE----------------------
      1 c  Heavy cream
      8 oz Semisweet chocolate
           - Chopped coarse
      2 tb Orange flavored liqueur

--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           Oranges; halved/sliced thin
           - into half rounds/about 14
           - slices
 
  FOR THE GANACHE: In a small saucepan bring the cream just to a simmer.
  Remove the pan from the heat, add the chocolate and let the mixture
  stand, covered, for 5 minutes. Stir in the liqueur and continue to
  stir the ganache until smooth and tepid. Strain through a fine sieve
  into a small pitcher or a bowl with a lip.
  
  ASSEMBLY: Cut an 8" cardboard round and put one teaspoon of the
  mousse in the center of it, then set one of the cake layers, bottom
  side up on the cardboard. Cover the cake with some of the mousse,
  smoothing it into an even layer, and top it with the remaining layer,
  bottom side up. Cover the top and the sides of the cake with the
  remaining mousse, smoothing it with a spatula, and chill the cake
  until it is cold. Set the cake on a rack over a jelly roll pan and
  pour the creme ganache over it, smoothing it with a spatula to
  completely cover the top and sides of the cake. Let the cake stand at
  room temperature for 10 minutes and scrape any excess chocolate glaze
  from the jelly roll pan back into the saucepan. Heat the excess
  ganache, stirring, until smooth, cool it to tepid, and pour it over
  the cake, smoothing it with a spatula over the top and sides of the
  cake. Chill the cake until the glaze is set. Transfer the reserved
  chocolate mixture to a pastry bag. Arrange orange slices, rounded
  sides up on the top of the cake, so that one end of the slice is
  toward the center and the other is toward the edge of the cake. Pipe
  the chocolate mixture along the base on each side of the orange
  slices. Arrange the remaining cream decoratively around the bottom
  edge of the cake. Let the cake stand at room temperature for at least
  15 minutes before serving.
  
  From the databases of Barb Day Prodigy ID# GWHP32A.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Fudge Icing
 Categories: Cakes, Toppings
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Minus 1 TBSP rich milk
           Remove from heat and stir in
           -until dissolved:
      2 c  Sugar
    1/8 ts Salt
      2 oz Grated chocolate
 
  This icing recipe is a candy recipe with milk added to make it into
  frosting.
  
  Bring to a boil in a large heavy pan: Bring t a boil and cook covered
  2-3 minutes until the steam washes down from the sides of the pan any
  crystals which may have formed. Uncover, redice heat and cook without
  stirring to soft-ball stage, 238 degrees. When nearing 238, there is
  a fine overall bubbling with, simultaneously, a coarser patter, as
  though the fine bubbled areas were being pulled down for quilting
  into the coarser ones. Remove from heat without jostling or stirring.
  Cool the candy to 110.  You may hasten this process by placing the
  hot pan in a larger pan of cold water until the bottom of the pan has
  cooled.  Add: 2 4 TBSP butter Beat fudge partially.  Add: 1 tsp
  vanilla Then beat until it begins to lose its sheen. At this point
  the drip from the spoon, when you flip it over, holds its shape
  against the bottom of the spoon. Quickly add: 1/2 1 c. broken nut
  meats Pour the fudge into a buttered pan. Cut into squares before it
  hardens. To use fudge for centers, beat until thick, knead and shape.
  
  For chocolate fudge icing, the book says to:
  
  Use in all: 1 c. milk Beat until the icing is of the right
  consistency to be spread.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Raspberry Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Alcohol, Chocolate
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 pk Chocolate cake mix *
     12 oz Semisweet chocolate chips
    1/4 c  Chambord
    1/2 c  Seedless raspberry jam
      8 oz Sour cream
      2 tb Chopped pecans, toasted
 
  * butter recipe chocolate cake with pudding
  ~---------------------------------------------------------------------
  ~-- Prepare cake mix according to package directions; stir in 1/2
  chocolate chips. Spoon batter into 2 greased and floured 9 inch round
  cake pans. Bake at 350~F for 25-30 minutes. Cool in pans on wire rack
  10 minutes. Remove from pans and cool completely. Brush tops of
  layers with Chambord. Place on cake layer on a plate; spread with jam
  and top with second layer. Melt remaining chocolate chips over low
  heat, stirring often. Remove from heat, gradually stir in sour cream.
  Spread on top and sides of cake, sprinkle top with toasted pecans
  Chill at least 2 hours.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Sour Cherry Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 10 servings
 
     12 tb Unsalted butter
      6 oz Semi-sweet chocolate
      1 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Sifted flour with 1 t. salt
      6    Eggs, separated
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 cn Sour cherries, drained
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman CHOCOLATE SOUR CHERRY CAKE
  Preheat oven to 350. Melt chocolate and butter together, let cool
  slightly. Beat egg yolks and sugar until lemon colored. Add chocolate
  and egg whites. Pour into a buttered 10-1/2" spring form pan.
  Sprinkle drained cherries evenly on top. Bake for 55 minutes. Cool
  for 15 minutes. Run knife around edge to loosen. Let cool completely
  and remove from pan.
  
  Servings: 10
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Raspberry Mousse Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 4 servings
 
-----------------------CHOCOLATE CAKE----------------------------
      3    Eggs, separated
    1/3 c  Granulated sugar
    1/2 c  Flour
      2 tb Unsweetened cocoa powder

----------------------RASPBERRY SYRUP---------------------------
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Water
      2 tb Raspberry liqueur

----------------------RASPBERRY MOUSSE---------------------------
  1 1/2    Unflavored gelatin
    1/4 c  Water
      2 pk (each 300 grams) frozen
           Raspberries, thawed
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Raspberry liqueur
      2 c  Whipping cream

----------------------CHOCOLATE GLAZE---------------------------
      4 oz Semisweet chocolate
    1/4 c  Whipping cream
 
  This recipe makes double the amout of cake needed, so you'll be able
  to freeze the extra cake to have on hand when you want to make an
  encore of these fabulous flavors.
  
  CHOCOLATE CAKE:   In large bowl, beat egg yolks with 1/4 cup of the
  sugar until very pale.  In separate bowl, beat egg whites until soft
  peaks form; gradually beat in remaining sugar until stiff peaks form.
  Fold egg white mixture into egg yolk mixture. Sift flour and cocoa
  over egg mixture; gently fold in.  Pour into buttered 8 inch
  springform pan;bake in 350F oven for 30-35 minutes or until top
  springs back when lightly touched. Run knife around edge of cake to
  loosen.  Let cool on wire rack.
  
  RASPBERRY SYRUP:  In small saucepan, combine sugar and water; cook
  over medium heat until sugar has dissolved, about 1 minutes.
   Stir in liqueur.  Let cool.
  
  RASPBERRY MOUSSE:  In small saucepan, sprinkle gelatin over water; let
  stand for 5 minutes to soften.  Pass berries through food mill to
  puree and remove seeds to make aobut 2 cups. Transfer puree to
  separate saucepan. Add sugar and lemon juice; cook over medium heat,
  stirring occasionally, until sugar hs dissolved, about 5 minutes.
  Stir in liqueur; transfer to large bowl.  Over low heat, heat gelatin
  until dissolved; stir into raspberry mixture.  Chill, stirring
  occasionally,over larger bowl of ice and water for about 20 minutes
  or until consistency of raw egg whites. Whip cream; fold into cooled
  raspberry mixture. Reserve 1/2 cup for garnish.
  
  TO ASSEMBLE: Cut cake into 3 or 4 thin layers; reserve 2 layers and
  freeze remaining layers for another use.  Sprinkle 1 cut side of each
  of the 2 layers with raspberry syrup.  Place 1 layer, syrup side up,
  in 9 inch springorm pan; pour in half of the raspberry mousse. Top
  with second cake layer;pour in enough of the remaining mousse to come
  almost to top of pan. Smooth surface.  Refrigerate until firm, 1-2
  hours.
  
  CHOCOLATE GLAZE: In top of double boiler over hot, not boiling,
  water, melt chocolate with crea, stirring until smooth.  Let cool to
  room temperature yet still spreadable; pour over mousse and spread
  evenly. Spoon remaining mouse into pastry bag fitted with small plain
  tip; pipe three concentric circles over top of cake.  Pull toothpick
  through circles to form spiderweb design.  Refrigerate until chilled.
  Shared by: Sharon Stevens.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Mousse Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 1 servings
 
-------------------CHOCOLATE CHIFFON CAKE------------------------
      1 c  Egg whites (7 or 8)
    1/2 c  Cocoa, unsweetened (sifted)
    3/4 c  Water, boiling
  1 3/4 c  Flour, cake (sifted)
  1 3/4 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Oil, salad
      7    Egg yolks
      2 ts Vanilla extract
    1/2 ts Cream of tartar

---------------------CHOCOLATE FILLING--------------------------
      3 c  Heavy cream
  1 1/2 c  Sugar, confectioners(sifted)
    3/4 c  Cocoa, unsweetened (sifted)
      2 ts Vanilla extract
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Gelatine, unflavored
 
  NOTE:  All sifted ingredients should be sifted BEFORE measuring! 1.
  Make cake: in large electric mixer bowl, let whites warm to room
  temp. (1 hour). Into cocoa in small bowl, stir boiling water until
  smooth.  Let cool 1/2 hour.  preheat oven to 325F. Sift flour with
  sugar, soda and salt in large bowl.  make a well in center. 2. Pour
  in oil, yolks, vanilla and cocoa. with wooden spoon, beat just until
  smooth. sprinkle cream of tartar over whites.  with mixer at high
  speed, beat until very stiff peaks form when beater is slowly raised.
  do not underbeat. pour batter over whites. 3. with whisk, and an
  under-and-over motion, gently fold to combine.  turn into ungreased
  10-inch tube pan.  bake 60-65 minutes, until top springs back when
  pressed with finger.  invert over nech of bottle.  cool 1 1/2 hours.
  with spatula, loosen cake and remove. 4. cool on rack. make chocolate
  filling:  in large bowl, combine cream, sugar, cocoa, vanilla, salt &
  refrigerate for 1 hour.  with mixer, beat until stiff, refrigerate
  again.  sprinkle gelatine over 2 tb cold water to soften. heat,
  stirring over hot water to dissolve (double boiler effect). cool. 5.
  prepare cake. cut 1 inch slice crosswise from top of cake, set aside.
  with sharp knife, outline a cavity in cake, leaving 1 inch thick
  walls around center, side and bottom.  with spoon carefully remove
  cake from this area. reserve 1 1/2 c crumbled cake. 6. measure 2 1/2
  c chocolate filling into small bowl. fold in gelatine. use to fill
  cavity. replace top. mix 1/2 c filling with reserved crumbled cake.
  use to fill center hole. frost top and side of cake with remaining
  filling. refregerate until serving. serves 12
  
  End result should be a chocolate cake with a ring of chocolate filling
  inside.  a cross section of a slice would look something like this:
       --------------------
      |       CAKE         |
      | C  ------------  C |
      | A |            | A |
      | K |   FILLING  | K |
      | E |            | E |
      |   |            |   |
      |    ------------    |
      |       CAKE         |
       --------------------
  
  (Stiffly beaten egg whites are the secret of a chiffon cake that's as
  light as angel food-and its center is filled with devilishly rich
  chocolate cream.)
  
  Source: McCall's Cooking School Shared by /\/\ara Kent
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Mud Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Cake:
    250 g  Butter
  1 1/2 c  Hot Water
      2 c  Castor Sugar
    1/4 c  Cocoa
      1 tb Instant Coffee
    200 g  Dark Cooking Chocolate
  1 1/2 c  SR Flour
      2    Eggs
           Vanilla
           Icing:
    125 g  Dark Cooking Chocolate
    125 g  Unsalted Butter
 
  1) Melt butter in double boiler, stir in combined coffee and hot
  water, then chocolate & sugar. Stir until smooth. 2) Sifted dry
  ingredients into 3 lots. 3) Place melted ingredients into electric
  mixer bowl and gradually beat in dry sifted ingredients individually.
  4) Add eggs and vanilla and beat well. 5) Greased and base line a 25
  cm cake tin & pour in mixture. 6) Bake in slow oven (150 deg, C) for
  approx 2,5 hours. 7) Stand for 5 minutes before turning out of tin.
  Icing: 8) Melt chocolate and butter in double boiler and beat with a
  wooden spoon until smooth. 9) Pour over cold cake and smooth out.
  
  Note Cooking time may vary. Cake is cooked when skewer comes out
  reasonably clean.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Malt Cake From Kaitlin Young
 Categories: Cyberealm, Cakes
      Yield: 10 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter, softened
  1 1/3 c  Sugar
      1 c  Instant malted milk powder
    3/4 c  Firmly packed unsweetened
           -cocoa powder
      4    Eggs
      2 c  Flour
      3 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 3/4 c  Half and half
           Chocolate Malted Frosting
           (see below)
 
  1.  Preheat oven to 375F. In a large bowl, combine together butter and
  sugar until light and fluffy; add malted milk powder and cocoa and
  beat just until mixed. Add eggs, beating well.
  
  2.  Sift together dry ingredients, and add to chocolate mixture alter-
  nately with half and half. Spread evenly in a well greased 9 x 13
  pan, and bake 35-40 minutes or until done. Let cool in pan completely.
  
  ======================================================================
  
                          Chocolate Malted Frosting
  
  1/2  c half and half                  1/2 c instant malted milk
  powder 1 stick (4 oz) butter, softened      1/2 c firmly packed
  unsweetened
                                              cocoa 2 1/2 c powdered
  sugar
  
  1. In a medium bowl, combine the half and half and malted milk
  powder. Stir to combine, and let stand 15 minutes to dissolve the
  powder.
  
  2. In a medium bowl, beat together the butter and cocoa. Add malted
  milk mixture and beat well. Add powdered sugar and beat on high.
  Frost cake
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate-Chocolate-Chocolate-Chip Fudge Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
------------------------CAKE LAYERS-----------------------------
    1/4 lb Unsalted butter
           - (room temperature) PLUS:
  2 2/3 tb Unsalted butter
           - (at room temperature)
      2 c  Granulated sugar
      3    Eggs
      2 c  Sifted all-purpose flour
    3/4 c  Unsweetened cocoa powder
           -(preferably Dutch process)
  1 1/4 ts Baking soda
    1/4 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Milk
      1 ts Vanilla extract
    1/4 c  Chocolate-mint liqueur
           - (such as Vandermint)

------------------CHOCOLATE FUDGE FILLING-----------------------
    2/3 c  Granulated sugar
    1/2 c  Heavy cream
  2 1/2 oz Unsweetened chocolate
      1 tb Light corn syrup
      2 tb Unsalted butter

----------------------CHOCOLATE CREAM---------------------------
  2 1/2 c  Heavy cream
  3 1/2 tb Unsweetened cocoa powder
           -(preferably Dutch process)
      7 tb Confectioners' sugar

----------------ASSEMBLY AND CHOCOLATE SYRUP---------------------
      3 tb Chocolate chips
      2 tb Unsweetened cocoa powder
           -(preferably Dutch process)
      2 tb Light corn syrup
      1 tb Granulated sugar
 
  PREPARE THE CAKE LAYERS:  Preheat the oven to 350 F.  Line two 9-inch
  round cake pans with waxed paper; butter and flour the pans; tap out
  any excess flour.
  
  In a mixer bowl, beat the butter until light and fluffy.  Gradually
  add the sugar and continue beating until smooth.  One at a time, beat
  in the eggs until well-blended.
  
  Sift together the flour, cocoa, baking soda, baking powder and salt.
  Add to the egg mixture in thirds, alternating with the milk, mixing
  only until blended.  Blend in the vanilla and liqueur.  Divide the
  batter between the two prepared pans.  Bake until the tops of the
  cakes are springy to the touch, 40 to 45 minutes.  Remove from the
  oven and set on racks to cool for 30 minutes.  Loosen the edges with
  a knife and unmold.  Peel off the waxed paper.  Set the cakes on a
  rack and let cool completely.
  
  PREPARE THE FILLING:  Combine the sugar, cream, chocolate and corn
  syrup in a small heavy saucepan.  Bring to a simmer over moderate
  heat, stirring frequently.  Reduce the heat to low and cook for 10
  minutes, or until the mixture thickens.  Remove from the heat, dot
  the top with the butter and let cool to room temperature, about 15
  minutes.  When cool, stir in the butter until the fudge filling is
  smooth and creamy.
  
  PREPARE THE CHOCOLATE CREAM: Beat the cream and cocoa until soft peaks
  form.  Gradually add the confectioners' sugar and continue beating
  until stiff.
  
  ASSEMBLE THE CAKE:  Cover one cake layer with all of the fudge
  filling. Sprinkle evenly with the chocolate chips.  Spread 1/2 cup of
  the chocolate cream on top of the chips.  Top with the second cake
  layer and cover the top and sides of the cake iwth half of the
  remaining chocolate cream.  Use the remainder in a pastry bag to
  decorate the cake as desired. Refrigerate for up to 3 hours before
  serving time.
  
  PREPARE THE SYRUP:  Combine the cocoa, corn syrup, sugar and 2
  tablespoons of water in a small heavy saucepan.  Bring to a simmer
  over low heat and cook, stirring constantly, for 2 minutes.  Transfer
  the syrup to a small bowl and let cool to room temperature, stirring
  once or twice, to prevent a skin from forming.
  
  Just before serving, drizzle the syrup over the top of the cake in a
  lacy design.
  
  Recipe by Peter Sussman - The Phoenix - Warren, Virginia From: Great
  Desserts (American Express Publishing Corporation) ISBN: 0-916103-04-8
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate-Amaretto Cheesecake (Make Ahead)
 Categories: Chocolate, Cheesecake, Cakes
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      6    Chocolate wafers, finely
           -crushed
  1 1/2 c  Light process cream cheese
           -product
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  1% low-fat cottage cheese
    1/4 c  Plus 2 tbsp unsweetened
           -cocoa
    1/4 c  All-purpose flour
    1/4 c  Amaretto
      1 ts Vanilla extract
    1/4 ts Salt
      1    Egg
      2 tb Semisweet chocolate
           -mini-morsels
 
  From: Light and Easy Cooking Collection, Oxmoor House
  
  You can substitute an 8-inch pan for this cheesecake recipe, if
  desired. The larger cheesecake will require only 45 to 50 minutes
  baking time.
  
  chocolate curls
  
  Sprinkle chocolate wafer crumbs in bottom of a 7-inch springform pan.
  Set aside. Position knife blade in food processor bowl; add cream
  cheese and next 7 ingredients, processing until smooth. Add egg and
  process just until blended. Fold in chocolate morsels.
  
  Slowly pour mixture over crumbs in pan. Bake at 300 for 65 to 70
  minutes or until cheesecake is set. Let cool in pan on wire rack.
  Cover and chill at least 8 hours. Remove sides of pan, and transfer
  cheesecake to serving platter. Garnish with chocolate curls, if
  desired. Yield: 12 servings (about 200 calories per serving).
  
  CHOCOLATE MINT CHEESECAKE: Substitute 1/4 cup creme de menth for
  amaretto. Yield: 12 servings (about 197 calories per serving).
 

 

 
      Title: Cocoa Bundt Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  1 2/3 c  All-purpose flour
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Hershey cocoa
  1 1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Salt
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Shortening
  1 1/3 c  Buttermilk or sour milk *
      1 ts Vanilla
           Chocolate glaze (recipe foll
           -ws)
 
  Heat oven to 350 degrees. Generously grease and flour 12 cup Bundt
  pan. In large mixer bowl, blend flour, sugar, cocoa, baking soda,
  baking powder and salt; add remaining ingredients except Chocolate
  Glaze. Beat on low speed 1 minute, scraping bowl constantly. Beat on
  high speed 3 minutes, scraping bowl occasionally. Pour into prepared
  pan. Bake 50 to 55 minutes or until wooden toothpick inserted in
  center comes out clean. Cool 10 minutes; remove from pan to wire
  rack. Cool completely. Drizzle with Chocolate Glaze. * To sour milk:
  Use 1 1/2 tbsp vinegar plus milk to equal 1 1/2 cups
 

 

 
      Title: Cocolat Walnut Torte
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      8 oz Ghirardelli Bittersweet
           -Chocolate
    3/4 c  Butter
      4    Eggs, separated
    3/4 c  Sugar, divided
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/4 c  Unsifted flour
    2/3 c  Walnuts, ground
      1 pn Cream of tartar
 
  Servings: 12
  
  DIRECTIONS: In heavy saucepan on low heat, melt broken chocolate with
  butter, stirring constantly until smooth; set aside. Beat egg yolks
  for 1 to 2 minutes, gradually adding 1/2 cup sugar and vanilla. Beat
  in chocolate mixture. Fold in flour and nuts. Beat egg whites with
  cream of tartar until foamy. Gradually add remaining 1/4 cup sugar,
  beating until stiff peaks form. Blend a fourth of the egg whites into
  the chocolate mixture; fold in remaining egg whites. Pour into 9"
  springform pan lined with parchment paper. Bake at 375 F for 30 to 35
  minutes or until sides start to separate from pan but center is still
  moist. Cool on rack. Remove torte from pan. Frost with Cocolat Rum
  Glaze*.
  
  * Separate recipe
  
  Source: Recipes from Ghirardelli Chocolate Company of San Francisco
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 

 

 
      Title: Creamy Blender Chocolate Frosting
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      6    Blocks (6 oz.) unsweetened
      1 c  Evaporated milk
           Baking chocolate
      1 ts Vanilla
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      6 tb Margarine
 
  Cut chocolate into small pieces. Put all of the ingredients into a
  blender. Cover. At low speed, blend until larger pieces are chopped.
  Stop motor and stir. Blend at high speed until frosting becomes thick
  and creamy. This frosting is absolutley scrumptious. Makes 3 cups
  frosting.
  
  Recipe by: Mrs. Norman Saurage III Found in: River Road Recipes II
  Shared by: Scott Ward I
 

 

 
      Title: Dark Chocolate Glaze (For Decadence Cake)
 Categories: Ghirardelli, Cakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 oz Ghirardelli Sweet Dark
           -Chocolate
      3 tb Butter
      1 tb Milk
      1 tb Light corn syrup
    1/4 ts Vanilla
    1/3 c  Ground or chopped almonds or
           -walnuts
 
  DIRECTIONS: In small, heavy saucepan or microwave oven on medium, melt
  broken chocolate with butter. Stir frequently until smooth. Remove
  from heat. Stir in milk, syrup and vanilla. Place 9" cake layer on
  rack over a baking sheet. When glaze is cool, pour onto center of
  cake. Let glaze run down sides. Use spatula to smooth glaze and coat
  sides. Decorate side of cake with nuts. Chill about 10 minutes to set
  glaze.
  
  Source: Recipes from Ghirardelli Chocolate Company of San Francisco
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 

 

 
      Title: Dark Chocolate Pecan Torte
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      4    Squares (4 Ounces)
           -Unsweetened Chocolate,
           -Broken Into
           Pieces
    1/3 c  Butter Or Margarine
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla Extract
      3 lg Eggs, Separated
    1/2 c  Unbleached All Purpose Flour
      3 tb Water
    3/4 c  Finely Chopped Pecans
    1/8 ts Cream Of Tartar
    1/8 ts Salt
           Chocolate Glaze
      1 c  Powdered Sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla Extract
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Water
      1    Square (1 Ounce) Unsweetened
           -Chocolate
           Hot Water
 
  Yield: 10 to 12 Servings
  
  In a small microwave safe bowl, place the chocolate and butter.
  Microwave on HIGH (100 %) power 1 Minute or until smooth when
  stirred; cool slightly.
  
  Line the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan with foil; butter the foil
  and sides of the pan.  Pre-heat the oven to 350 Degrees F.  In a
  large mixer bowl, combine the chocolate mixture, sugar, and vanilla
  and beat well.  Add the egg yolks, beating well after each addition.
  Blend in the flour and water, and beat well.  Stir in the pecans.
  Clean the mixer beaters very well and in a small bowl beat the egg
  whites, cream of tartar, and salt until stiff peaks form; carefully
  fold the egg whites into the chocolate mixture.  Pour the batter into
  the prepared pan.  Bake for 45 minutes or until the top appears dry,
  (The torte will NOT test done in the center).
  
  Cool 1 hour.  Cover and refrigerate until firm.  Remove the side of
  the pan.  Invert onto a serving plate and carefully remove the bottom
  of the pan and the foil.  Pour the Chocolate Glaze over the torte
  spreading evenly on the top and sides.
  
  Chocolate Glaze:
  
  In a small mixer bowl, combine the powdered sugar and vanilla extract
  and set aside.  In a small microwave safe bowl, place the butter,
  water, and chocolate.  Microwave on HIGH (100 %) power 1 minute or
  until smooth when stirred.  Add to the sugar mixture, beating until
  smooth.  Add hot water, 1/2 Tsp at a time, if needed until the
  desired consistency is reached.
 

 

 
      Title: Death By Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 pk Ladyfingers
    1/2 c  Dark rum
  1 1/2 lb Butter (no substitutes)
     27 oz Semisweet chocolate chips
     12    Eggs
  2 1/2 c  Heavy cream
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 tb Vegetable oil
 
  From: John Totels, 25 May 89 00:13:00
  
  Here's a recipe I recently obtained from a friend who in turn
  received it from a friend ....  This recipe can be made a week or so
  in advance, or so I'm told.  It's more like a mousse than a cake, but
  it is indecently rich!
  
  Preparation: Paint outside of the ladyfingers with rum, and place
  flat side down, around the sides and on the bottom of a 10 in.
  springform pan. Melt butter in medium pan; remove from heat and add
  24 oz. of the chocolate bits.  Stir until melted; cool slightly.
  Beat the egg yokes into the mixture one at a time until all are
  incorporated into the chocolate. Beat the egg whites until they form
  stiff, not dry, peaks.  Fold the whites into the chocolate mixture,
  and pour into the lined springform pan. Chill for at least 6 hours.
  
  Whip the cream until thickened and add the sugar and vanilla.
  Continue whipping until very stiff.  Turn the cake onto a serving
  platter, removing the pan sides and bottom (the lady fingers will now
  be on top). Spread a layer of whipped cream over the entire cake,
  then pipe the rest of the whipped decoratively however you wish
  around the cake - be imaginative! Melt the remaining chocolate chips
  with the oil in a double boiler. Cool completely.  Dribble the sauce
  down the sides of the cake. Garnish with stemmed candied cherries.
  Store in the refrigerator.
  
  Should make about 16 servings, or 8 - depending....
  
  Note: If the cake is going to be displayed for any length of time,
  you may wish to use stabalized cream, and add 1 teaspoon of dissolved
  gelatin to the cake mixture.
  
  One more note: I don't know to whom the credit goes for this
  "slightly" fattening recipe, and I apologize for that.  But I am
  passing it on to those of you who are in good health.  If you are not
  in good health, you use this recipe at your own risk - 12 eggs, 2-1/2
  cups of cream, 27 oz. of chocolate, 1-1/2 lb. of butter (no
  substitutes) - there ought to be a law! Thanks for listening.
 

 

 
      Title: Decadent Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Cyberealm, Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 c  Boiling water
      3 oz Unsweetened chocolate
      8 tb Sweet butter (1 stick)
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs, separated
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 c  Sour cream
      2 c  Less 2 T flour
      1 ts Baking powder
           Chocolate frosting*
           *see below
 
  1.  Preheat oven to 350F. Grease a 10" tube pan.
  
  2.  Pour boiling water over chocolate and butter; let stand until
  melted. Stir in vanilla and sugar, then whisk in egg yolks, one at a
  time, until blended well.
  
  3. Mix soda and sour cream and whisk into chocolate mixture.
  
  4. Mix flour and baking powder well, and add to batter, mixing
  thoroughly.
  
  5. Beat egg whites until stiff but not dry. Stir in a quarter of the
  egg whites thoroughly into the batter. Scoop the remaining egg whites
  on top of the batter and gently fold in.
  
  6. Pour batter into prepared pan. Set on the middle rack of the oven
  and bake for 40-50 min. or until the edges have pulled away from the
  pan and the cake tester inserted comes out clean. Cool in pan for 10
  minutes; unmold and cool completely before frosting.
  
  =============================Chocolate Frosting======================
  
  2   T   sweet butter                    3/4 c semisweet chocolate
  chips 6 T heavy cream                     1 1/4 c confectioners sugar
  1 t vanilla
  
  Place all ingredients in a heavy saucepan and whisk until smooth over
  low heat. Cool slightly; add more sugar if necessary. Spread on cake
  while frosting is still warm.
  
  Source:  Silver Palate Cookbook
 

 

 
      Title: Deep Chocolate Torte with Coffee Buttercream
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 1 servings
 
------------------------CAKE LAYERS-----------------------------
     14 lg Eggs, Separated
  1 3/4 c  Sugar
      9 oz Bittersweet Chocolate,Melted

------------------------BUTTERCREAM-----------------------------
      1 c  Sugar
      2 lg Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Unsalted Butter, Softened
      3 tb Instant Espresso, Dissolved
      1 tb Hot water

--------------------------GANACHE-------------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Heavy Cream
      6 oz Bittersweet Chocolate, Chip

--------------------------ASSEMBLY-------------------------------
    3/4 c  Apricot Preserves
           Chocolate Coffee Beans
 
  Line 2 greased jelly-roll pans, 15x10x1-inch each, with wax paper and
  butter and flour the paper, shaking off excess.  In a large bowl with
  an electric mixer, beat the egg yolks.  Add slowly 1-1/2 cups sugar,
  beating, and beat the mixture until it is thick and pale and forms a
  ribbon.  Add the chocolate and combine the batter well.  In another
  large bowl with clean beaters, beat the egg whites until they hold
  soft peaks.  Add the remaining 1/4 cup sugar slowly, and beat until
  whites hold stiff peaks. Stir a fourth of the whites into the yolk
  mixture, fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly, and pour the
  batter into the pans, spreading it evenly.  Bake the cake layers in
  the middle of a preheated 375F oven for 18-20 minutes or until pick
  test.  Let cake layers cool in the pans, covered with kitchen towels
  on large racks.  Invert the cake layers onto the racks and remove the
  wax paper carefully.  Buttercream: In a small heavy saucepan,
  dissolve sugar in 1/3 cup water over moderate heat, stirring.  Bring
  mixture to a boil, and boil it until it registers 240F on a candy
  thermometer.  In a large bowl with an electric mixer, beat eggs until
  they are frothy.  Add sugar syrup in a thin stream, beating, and beat
  the mixture until it is cool.  Beat in the butter, one T at a time.
  Beat in expresso powder and a pinch of salt.  Beat the buttercream
  until it is combined well.  If necessary, chill the buttercream,
  covered, until it is firm enough to spread.  Ganache: In a large
  heavy saucepan, bring cream just to a boil and remove from heat.  Add
  chocolate and stir until it is smooth.  Transfer mixture to a bowl
  and chill, covered, stirring occasionally, until it is cool and
  thickened.  Do not let it solidify. Beat the mixture until it just
  forms soft peaks, but do not overbeat. Assembly: Force preserves
  through a fine sieve into a bowl.  Transfer the cake layers to a work
  surface.  Trim edges and halve each layer lengthwise. On a serving
  plate, arrange one layer, spread with a third of the preserves, and
  spread a third of the ganache over the preserves.  Top with another
  layer and proceed with the preserves, ganache and cake in the same
  manner, ending with a cake layer on top.  Spread the sides and top of
  the cake with a thin layer of buttercream an chill for 30 minutes.
  Spread on additional buttercream, leaving about 1/3 cup to make
  rosettes.  With a pastry comb or tines of a fork, score the
  buttercream lengthwise.  Draw the back of a knife crosswise across
  the scored buttercream at intervals. Transfer the remaining
  buttercream to a small pastry bag fitted with a decorative tip. Pipe
  rosettes on top of the torte along the long sides and intersperse the
  rosettes with chocolate coffee beans.  Chill.  Remove from
  refrigerator about 30 minutes before serving. A 1989 Gourmet Magazine
  Favorite.
 

 

 
      Title: Devil's Food Cake with Fudge Frosting (U. S.)
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate, Text
      Yield: 8 servings
 
  1 3/4 c  Sifted cake flour
    1/2 c  Cocoa powder (not a mix)
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  (1 stk) unsalted butter
  1 1/4 c  Granulated sugar
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
      2 lg Eggs
      1 c  Boiling water
           FROSTING:
    1/4 c  (1/2 stk) unsalted butter
      2 c  Unsifted confectioners'
           -(10X) sugar
      2    Squares (1 oz each)
           -unsweetened chocolate,
           -melted
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
      2 tb Half-and-half, milk or
           -evaporated milk
 
  CAKE:
  
  PREHEAT THE OVEN TO 350F. Grease two 8-inch layer cake pans well,
  then dust then generously with cocoa. (This gives the cake layers a
  rich brown finish). Sift the flour, cocoa, baking soda and salt onto
  a piece of waxed paper and set it aside. Cream the butter until it is
  fluffy, add the sugar and vanilla, and continue beating until the
  batter is silvery and light. Beat the eggs in one by one, then add
  the sifted dry ingredients, alternately with the boiling water,
  beginning and ending with the dry ingredients and beating well after
  each addition. Divide the batter equally between the two pans,
  smoothing the tops. Bake the layers uncovered for 30 to 35 minutes,
  or until the layers feel spongy to the touch and begin to pull away
  from the sides of the pans. Cool the layers upright in their pans on
  wire racks for 10 minutes, then carefully loosen them around the
  edges with a spatula and turn them onto wire racks. Cool them
  completely.
  
  FOR THE FROSTING: Cream the butter until it is light, then add the
  confectioners' sugar gradually, beating all the while. Beat in the
  melted chocolate and vanilla, then add just enough cream to make the
  frosting a good consistency for spreading. Sandwich the two cake
  layers together with frosting, then frost the top and sides of the
  cake. Swirl the frosting into peaks and valleys. Makes about 8
  servings.
 

 

 
      Title: Double Chocolate Snack Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 2/3 c  All-purpose flour
      1 c  Packed light brown sugar
    1/4 c  Hershey's cocoa
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Water
    1/3 c  Vegetable oil
      1 ts Vinegar
    3/4 ts Vanilla extract
    1/2 c  Hershey's Semi-Sweet
           -chocolate chips
 
  DOUBLE CHOCOLATE SNACK CAKE
  
  Heat oven to 350 degrees. Grease and flour square pan, 8 x 8 x 2
  inches. In small mixing bowl combine flour, sugar, cocoa, baking
  soda and salt. Add water, oil, vinegar, and vanilla; beat until
  smooth. Pour into prepared pan. Sprinkle chocolate chips over top.
  Bake 35 to 40 minutes or until wooden pick inserted in  center comes
  out clean. Cool in pan on wire rack. Cut into squares.
  
  Makes 6 to 8 servings.
  
  VARIATION: Chocolate Banana Snack Cake: Decrease water to 1/2 cup;
  stir in 1/2 cup mashed, ripe  banana (1 medium banana) before pouring
  batter into pan.
 

 

 
      Title: Double Chocolate Pound Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine,
           Room temperature
    3/4 c  Brown sugar
    3/4 c  Granulated sugar
      4    Squares (4 oz.) unsweetened
           Chocolate, melted
      4    Eggs
  2 1/2 c  Cake flour
    1/2 ts Baking soda
      1 c  Buttermilk
      2 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Chocolate chips coated in
      2 tb All-purpose flour
 
  Preparation time: 20 min. Baking time: about 50 min. Oven
  temperature: 350 degrees F.
  
  This cake is so rich and moist and it keeps well for some time in a
  well covered cake tin or wrapped in plastic in the refrigerator.
  
  For one 10-inch cake you will need:
  
  Fresh sliced strawberries, for garnish
  
  1. Cream butter with sugars until smooth and well blended.
  
  2. Add chocolate and eggs, one at a time. Beat until fluffy.
  
  3. Mix flour and baking soda. Add to creamed mixture.
  
  4. Blend in buttermilk and vanilla, stir until smooth. Add chocolate
  chips.
  
  5. Turn batter into a well-greased and floured 10-inch tube baking
  pan.
  
  6. Bake at 350 degrees F. for 40 to 50 minutes or until a cake tester
  comes out clean.
  
  7. Let cake cool in pan for a couple of minutes.
  
  8. Turn cake out of pan onto a wire rack. Cool completely.
  
  9. Garnish with fresh sliced strawberries or other berries.
  
  10.  Serve with a dollop of whipping cream.
  
  From: Great American Recipes Shared by: Kaitlin Young
 

 

 
      Title: Double Dark Chocolate Cake with White Chocolate Sauce
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 10 servings
 
----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
      1 c  Heavy cream
 10 1/2 oz Semi-sweet chocolate
           - chopped in small pieces
      2 oz Unsweetened chocolate
           - chopped in small pieces
      5    Eggs
    1/3 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla extract

--------------------------FROSTING-------------------------------
      4 oz Semi-sweet chocolate
      5 tb Butter; softened
      2 tb Bourbon
      2    Eggs; separated
  1 1/2 tb Sugar

---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      5 oz White chocolate
           - chopped in small pieces
      1 c  Heavy cream
 
  Serves: 8-12 Preheat oven to 350 F.
  
  To prepare cake, cut a round of wax paper or parchment to fit the
  bottom of a 9-inch round cake pan.  Butter the pan, fit in the paper,
  and then butter it.  Coat the pan with flour, tapping out the excess.
  
  Bring the cream to a boil in a heavy 3-quart saucepan.  Remove it
  from the heat and stir in both chocolates.  Cover the pan and let it
  stand for 5 minutes.  Stir the mixture until it is smooth.  Set
  aside, uncovered.
  
  Combine the eggs, sugar and vanilla in a large bowl.  Set the bowl
  over simmering water and whisk the mixture constantly until it is
  hot, about 2 minutes.  Remove the bowl from the heat and beat with an
  electric mixer on moderate, then high speed until the mixture has
  tripled in volume, cooled, and it is as thick as a soft meringue,
  about 8 minutes.
  
  With a whisk, stir one-third of the egg mixture into the chocolate.
  Gently fold in the remainder with a rubber spatula, blending until
  only a few chocolate streaks remain.  Pour the batter into the cake
  pan and smooth the top.  Place it in a larger pan and carefully pour
  in boiling water to reach halfway up the sides.
  
  Bake in the center of the oven for 50 minutes, or until a toothpick
  inserted in the center comes out clean.  Let the cake cool for 30
  minutes in the water, then remove it and place on a rack to cool
  completely.  When it is completely cooled, run a knife around the
  edge of the pan and invert onto a serving dish.  Gently remove the
  paper.
  
  To prepare the frosting, combine the chocolate and butter in the
  upper part of a large double boiler.  Set over simmering water and
  stir occasionally until they are melted.  Remove the pan from the
  heat and let the mixture cool for 10 minutes.  Add the bourbon and
  stir; whisk in the egg yolks, one at a time.
  
  Beat the egg whites to form soft peaks.  Gradually add the sugar,
  beating until stiff peaks form, about 2 minutes.  Fold one-quarter of
  the mixture into the chocolate and blend well.  Fold in the remaining
  whites with a rubber spatula, blending until the whites are barely
  incorporated.  Chill for at least 2 hours.
  
  To prepare the sauce, place the white chocolate in the top part of a
  double boiler over simmering water.  Stir until it is melted.  Add
  the cream and stir for a minute.  Cool to room temperature.  (The
  sauce can be chilled, then warmed slightly to blend it, then cooled
  to room temperature for serving.)
  
  To assemble the cake, scoop the frosting gently into a pastry tube
  fitted with a fairly wide (Number 4) star tube.  Pipe the mixture
  over the top of the cake.  You can chill the cake for as long as 2
  days.
  
  To serve the cake, let it reach room temperature, which will take
  about 3 hours.  Stir the sauce, then pour a small pool onto each
  serving plate. Place a slice of cake on the sauce.
  
  From: Stephen Pyles, creative chef of Dallas's Routh Street Cafe
  _American Bistro_  ISBN: 0-8092-5047-0
  
  Any typographical errors courtesy of: Karen Mintzias  :-)
 

 

 
      Title: Eagle Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Ghirardelli, Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      4 oz Ghirardelli Semi-Sweet
           -Chocolate
    1/2 c  Water
      1 c  Butter
      2 c  Sugar
      4 lg Eggs, separated
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Unsifted flour
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 c  Buttermilk or strong cold
           -coffee
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  DIRECTIONS: In heavy saucepan on low heat, melt broken chocolate with
  water; set aside. Cream butter with sugar until light and fluffy. Add
  egg yolks, one at a time beating after each addition. Mix in melted
  chocolate and vanilla. Sift flour with soda. Add dry ingredients
  alternately with buttermilk or coffee to chocolate mixture; mix until
  smooth. Beat egg whites with salt until very stiff peaks form; fold
  into batter. Spread into three 8 or 9" round cake pans lined with wax
  paper. Bake at 350-F about 30 minutes. Cool on rack 10 minutes;
  remove cake.
  
  Source: Recipes from Ghirardelli Chocolate Company of San Francisco
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 

 

 
      Title: Empress Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Ghirardelli, Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           INGREDIENTS:
  1 1/2 c  Sifted cake flour
      1 c  Ghirardelli Sweet Ground
           -Chocolate
    3/4 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/4 ts Cream of tartar
    1/2 ts Salt
    2/3 c  Shortening
      1 c  Buttermilk
      2    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  DIRECTIONS: Heat oven to 350-F. Into large mixer bowl, sift flour with
  Ground Chocolate, sugar, baking soda, cream of tartar and salt. Add
  shortening and 3/4 cup buttermilk. Beat on low speed to combine
  ingredients. Beat on medium low speed for 2 minutes. Add remaining
  1/4 cup buttermilk, eggs and vanilla. Beat additional 2 minutes. Line
  two 8 by 1 1/2" round cake pans with waxed paper. Spread batter into
  pans. Bake at 350-F for 30 to 35 minutes. Cool on racks 10 minutes;
  remove layers from pans.
  
  After completely cooled, frost with Empress Frosting*.
  
  *separate recipe
  
  Source: Recipes from Ghirardelli Chocolate Company of San Francisco;
  recipe from box of "Sweet Ground Chocolate and Cocoa"
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 

 

 
      Title: Empress Frosting
 Categories: Ghirardelli, Cakes
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           INGREDIENTS:
    1/3 c  Half & half
    1/2 c  Butter, cut up
      2 tb Sugar
  1 1/2 c  Ghirardelli Sweet Ground
           -Chocolate
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  DIRECTIONS: In 2 quart heavy saucepan, heat half & half with butter
  and sugar, stirring until blended. Add Ground Chocolate, mixing with
  wire whip until smooth. Heat on medium low until mixture is thick and
  shiny and runs off the spoon like syrup and the first bubble appears
  on the surface (160-F). Do not boil or overcook frosting. Cool 5
  minutes, then add vanilla. Place pan of frosting in bowl holding a
  tray of ice cubes and some water. Beat slowly with a spoon until
  frosting holds a shape. Frost cake; refrigerate if necessary to firm
  frosting.
  
  Source: Recipes from Ghirardelli Chocolate Company of San Francisco;
  recipe on box of "Sweet Ground Chocolate and Cocoa"
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 

 

 
      Title: English Toffee Refrigerator Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  2 1/2 oz Unsweetened baking chocolate
           -(2-1/2 squares)
    1/2 c  Milk
    2/3 c  Granulated sugar
      5    Egg yolks, beaten
      1 c  Butter
      1 c  Confectioners' sugar
      5    Egg whites
      1 c  Graham-cracker crumbs
      1 c  Pecans, chopped
      1 c  Whipped topping
 
  Makes 12 servings
  
  Melt chocolate; cool.  Combine milk, granulated sugar, and beaten egg
  yolks in top of double boiler.  Cook over boiling water, stirring
  constantly, until thickened.  Cool.  Cream butter, powdered sugar,
  and cooled chocolate together.  Blend into cooled egg-yolk mixture.
  Beat egg whites until stiff.  Fold chocolate mixture into egg whites.
  Blend well.
  
  Combine graham crackers and pecans.  Sprinkle half the graham cracker
  crumb and nut mixture over the bottom of an 8-inch square pan.  Pour
  chocolate mixture into pan; top with remaining crumb and nut mixture.
  Chill for 24 hours.
  
  To serve, cut cake into squares.  Garnish with whipped topping.
  
  From Whitman's Chocolate Cookbook ISBN 0-517-64157-7
 

 

 
      Title: Feathery Fudge Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 2 servings
 
  2 1/2    Squares (2 1/2 Ounces)
           -Unsweetened Baking
           -Chocolate Broken
           Into Pieces
    3/4 c  (6 Ounces) Butter Or
           -Margarine, Softened
      2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla Extract
      2 lg Eggs
  2 1/4 c  Unbleached All-Purpose Flour
  1 1/4 ts Baking Soda
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/3 c  Water
 
  Yield: 10 To 12 Servings
  
  Pre-heat the oven to 350 Degrees F.  In a small microwave safe bowl,
  place the chocolate and microwave on HIGH (100 %) power for 1 1/2 to
  2 minutes or until smooth when stirred; set aside to cool slightly.
  Grease and flour two 9 inch round baking pans.  In a large mixing
  bowl, beat the butter, sugar, and vanilla until light and fluffy. Add
  the eggs and cooled chocolate blending well.  In a separate bowl,
  stir together the flour, baking soda and salt; add alternately with
  the water to the chocolate mixture beating well after each addition.
  Pour the batter evenly into the 2 prepared pans.
  
  Bake for 35 to 40 minutes or until a wooden pick inserted in the
  middle comes out clean.  Cool 10 minutes in the pans and remove from
  the pans and place on a rack to finish cooling.  When the layers are
  completely cool, frost with any desired frosting.
 

 

 
      Title: Feathery Fudge Cake with Hungarian Frosting
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  3 1/2 c  Cake flour, sifted
  1 1/4 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
    2/3 c  Butter or margarine,
           -softened
  1 3/4 c  Sugar
      2 ea Eggs, unbeaten
  2 1/2 ea 1-oz squares unsweetened
           -chocolate, melted and
           -cooled
  1 1/4 c  Ice water
      1 ts Vanilla
           HUNGARIAN FROSTING:
      3 oz Unsweetened chocolate,
           -melted
  1 1/2 c  Confectioners' sugar, sifted
  2 1/2 tb Hot water
      1    Egg
      4 tb Butter or margarine
 
  Sift together flour, soda and salt. Cream butter or margarine in
  large bowl of electric mixer. Gradually add sugar; beat until light
  and fluffy. Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each
  addition. Blend in melted chocolate. Add sifted dry ingredients
  alternately with ice water. Add vanilla. Pour batter into two 9 inch
  layer cake pans that have been greased and floured. Bake in a 350
  degree F. oven for 30 to 35 minutes. Frost with Hungarian Frosting
  (below).
  
  Hungarian Frosting: Combine chocolate, sugar and water in small bowl
  of electric mixer; blend well. Add egg and beat well. Add butter or
  margarine, 1 tablespoon at a time, beating until smooth. This cake
  and frosting will freeze.
  
  Source: Florence P. Hanford's Television Kitchen Meals, 1964.
  
  NOTE: This frosting calls for use of raw egg which may pose a health
  problem. Any other favorite frosting recipe could be substituted.
  
  Shared by: June Hoffman, 9/93
 

 

 
      Title: Flourless Chocolate Mousse Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      6    Eggs
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 lb Semi-sweet chocolate; melted
    1/4 c  Strong coffee
      1 ts Vanilla extract
 
  In a medium bowl place the eggs and sugar, and beat them together for
  3 to 4 minutes, or until eggs are light in color.
  
  Add the melted chocolate and coffee, and stir them in until the
  mixture is smooth.
  
  In anther medium bowl place the heavy cream and whip it until it is
  stiff. Add the vanilla and stir it in.
  
  Gently fold the whipped cream into the chocolate mixture.
  
  Preheat the oven to 350 F.
  
  Pour the mixture into a buttered 9" springform pan.  Place the pan in
  a baking dish that is half filled with hot water.  Bake the mousse
  cake in the water bath for 1 hour.
  
  Turn off the heat and let the cake sit in the oven for another 15
  minutes.
  
  Remove the cake from the oven and let it cool for 30 minutes.
  
  "This is a wonderful, dense, almost brownie-like cake.  Sprinkle on
  some powdered sugar and serve it with vanilla ice cream.  YUMMY is
  the word!"
  
  Source: California Beach Recipe - by Joan and Carl Stromquist ISBN:
  0-9622807-3-9 Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 

 

 
      Title: Fourth of July Flag Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Entertain
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 pk Yellow Or Chocolate Cake Mix
      2 pt Fresh Blueberries
      3 pt Fresh Strawberries
      3 c  Whipping Cream (DO NOT use
           -whipped topping
           Aerosol can)
    1/2 c  Confectioners Sugar
 
  Yield: 12 Servings
  
  Bake the cake according to the direction (Use the high altitude
  directions if you need them), in a 9 X 13-inch pan.  Cool.  (Cake may
  be made ahead and frozen.) Place on a serving plate or board.
  
  Whip the cream with the confectioners sugar.  Cut the strawberries in
  hal lengthwise.  Spread the cream evenly around the sides of the
  cake, saving a little for the top.
  
  To decorate:  Using a pastry bag, pipe (or dollop and spread with a
  spatula) rows of cream alternating with rows of strawberries for the
  flag "stripes".  Make a background of the blueberries in the upper
  left-hand corner, then pipe or dollop stars on top to create the
  "star" section of the cake.  If making cake ahed, arrange fruit
  several hours before serving. Add the cream up to an hour before
  serving.
  
  From The Food Section Of The Colorado Springs Gazette Telegraph
  07-01-92.
 

 

 
      Title: French Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      7 oz Semisweet chocolate
     14 tb Butter or margarine
      4    Eggs
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1 c  Flour
    1/3 c  Hazelnuts, coarsely chopped
      1 ts Baking powder
 
  Makes about 10 servings
  
  Preheat oven to 425 degrees F.  Grease a springform pan with
  detachable bottom that has a diameter of about 9 1/2 inches.
  
  Melt cooking chocolate and butter in a  thick-bottomed pot over low
  heat. Beat eggs and sugar until light and airy.  Carefully stir the
  somewhat cooled chocolate mixture into egg mixture.
  
  Blend flour, nuts, and baking powder together, and fold carefully into
  batter.  It's important to fold it in gently.
  
  Pour batter into pan and bake in the oven for about 15 minutes.  The
  cake should not become firm.  The "unbaked" batter tastes like a
  delicious filling.
  
  You may garnish cooled cake with a bit of grated chocolate and a ring
  of whipped topping.
  
  From Whitman's Chocolate Cookbook ISBN 0-517-64157-7
 

 

 
      Title: Fry's Fudgey Layer Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Fry's Cocoa
  1 3/4 c  Sugar, divided
    2/3 c  Water
      2 c  All-purpose flour
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Butter, softened
      3    Eggs
      2 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Milk
           Chocolate Frosting Royale
 
  Combine cocoa and 1/2 cup of the sugar in large saucepan. Gradually
  stir in water. Cook and stir over medium heat, until mixture boils;
  cool. Sift together flour, baking soda and salt. Cream butter in
  large mixer bowl until light; gradually beat in remaining 1-1/4 cups
  sugar. Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition.
  Stir in cooled chocolate mixture and vanilla. Add dry ingredients to
  creamed mixture alternately with milk, combining lightly after each
  addition. Divide batter between two greased and wax paper-lined
  9-inch round layer pans. Bake in preheated 350 degree F oven 30 to 35
  minutes. Cool in pans 10 minutes; remove from pans; peel off paper.
  Cool completely. Frost with Chocolate Frosting Royale. Makes 1 layer
  cake.
  
  Chocolate Frosting Royale: Melt 1/3 cup butter in large saucepan.
  Remove from heat. Stir in 1/2 cup milk Fry's Cocoa and 1 tsp vanilla.
  Alternately blend in 4 cups sifted icing sugar and 1/2 cup milk until
  frosting is smooth and spreadable. Makes about 2 cups.
 

 

 
      Title: Fudge Filled Cupcakes
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 25 servings
 
    2/3 c  Semi-sweet chocolate chips
      6 oz Butter
  1 1/4 ts Vanilla extract
      4    Eggs; large
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      1 c  All-purpose flour
           Filling:
      8 oz Cream cheese, softened
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1    Egg, beaten; large
    1/2 c  Semi-sweet chocolate chips
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Line 30 cupcake tins with paper or foil
  cupcake liners. In double boiler, set over medium heat, melt the 2/3
  cup of chocolate chips, butter and vanilla. Stir until smooth. Remove
  from heat. Beat the eggs until frothy, using a whisk or electric
  mixer. Gradually, beat in the sugar until it dissolves. Gradually,
  beat in the flour. Fold in the chocolate mixture. Fill the cupcake
  tins 1/3 full with the chocolate batter. Mash together the cream
  cheese, sugar and egg until blended. Fold in the 1/2 cup of chocolate
  chips. Drop a heaping teaspoonful of filling into each cupcake. Cover
  cream cheese filling with another generous spoonful of batter. Bake
  for 25 to 30 minutes. Let cupcakes cool completelyon a rack before
  storing in a covered container.
 

 

 
      Title: German White Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Cake flour
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 lb Unsalted butter
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      4 lg Eggs, separated
      4 oz White chocolate, melted in
           -1/2 c boiling water and
           -cooled
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      1 c  Buttermilk
      1 c  Shredded unsweetened coconut
      1 c  Chopped pecans
           Frosting
      1 c  Evaporated milk
      1 c  Sugar
    1/4 lb Unsalted butter
      3 lg Egg yolks
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      1 c  Chopped pecans
      1 c  Shredded unsweetened coconut
 
  CAKE
  
  1. Position the racks in the upper and lower thirds and preheat oven
  to 350 deg F. Lightly butter the bottom and sides of three 8 inch
  round cake pans. Line the pans with parchment paper. Dust the bottom
  and sides with flour; tap out the excess.
  
  2. Into a medium bowl, sift the cake flour and the baking soda. Using
  an electric mixer set at mdeium speed, cream the butter and the sugar
  in a large bowl until light and fluffy, about 5 minutes. Beat in one
  egg yolk at a time, blending well after each addition. Beat in the
  melted white chocolate mixture and the vanilla. At low speed, blend
  in the sifted flour mixture alternately with the buttermilk; do not
  overbeat. Fold in the coconut and pecans.
  
  3. Beat the egg whites until stiff peaks form.  Blend 1/3 of the egg
  whites into the cake mixture to lighten it; carefully fold in the
  remaining egg whites.  Spoon the batter into the prepared pans.
  
  4. Bake until the cake springs back when touched in the center and a
  cake tester inserted in the center of the pans comes out clean, about
  35 to 40 minutes. Transfer the cakes in the pans to wire racks and
  cool 10 minutes. Invert the cakes onto the wire racks, carefully peel
  off the parchment paper, and cool completely.
  
  FOR THE FROSTING:
  
  5. In a heavy medium saucepan over medium heat, combine the evaporated
  milk, sugar, butter, and egg yolks.  Simmer for 10 minutes, stirring
  constantly. Do not let mixture boil fast; lower the heat if necessary.
  Remove from heat and stir in the vanilla, pecans, and coconut. Plance
  the saucepan into a bowl filled with ice and stir constantly until
  the frosting is cool and slightly thickened.
  
  6. Place a cake layer on a serving platter. Spread 1/4 of the frosting
  evenly over the cake layer, making sure to spread it all the way to
  the edges. Top with the second layer, and spread with 1/4 of the
  frosting. Top with the third cake layer.  Evenly frost the top and
  sides of the cake with the remaining frosting.
 

 

 
      Title: German's Sweet Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      4 oz Sweet Chocolate (Baker's
           -German's brand)
    1/2 c  Boiling water
      1 c  Butter/margarine
      2 c  Sugar
      4    Eggs, separated
      1 ts Vanilla
  2 1/4 c  Sifted flour OR 2-1/2 sifted
           -cake flour
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Buttermilk
 
  FROM:      Baker's Germans' Sweet Chocolate package
  
  Melt chocolate in boiling water.  Cool.  Cream buter and sugar until
  fluffy. Add yolks, 1 at a time, beating well after each. Blend in
  vanilla and chocolate. Sift flour with soda and salt; add alternately
  with buttermilk to chocolate mixture, beating after each addition
  until smooth. Beat egg whites until stiff; fold in beaten whites.
  Pour into three 9-inch layer pans, lined on bottoms with paper. Bake
  at 350~ for 30-35 minutes. Cool Frost tops only.
  
  ~=> Coconut-Pecan Frosting Combine 1 cup evaporated milk, 1 cup
  sugar, 3 slightly beaten egg yolks, 1/2 cup butter/margarine and 1
  tsp vanilla. Cook and stir over medium heat until thickened, about 12
  minutes. Add 1-1/3 cups flaked coconut and 1 cup chopped pecans. Cool
  until thick enough to spread, beating occasionally.  Makes 2-1/2 cups.
 

 

 
      Title: Ghirardelli Chocolate Frosting
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 oz Ghirardelli Semi-Sweet
           -Chocolate
      4 tb Butter
      3 c  Powdered sugar
    1/3 c  Hot milk
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/8 ts Salt
 
  DIRECTIONS: In heavy saucepan on low heat, melt broken chocolate with
  butter, stirring constantly. Beat sugar with milk, vanilla, and salt
  until smooth. Add melted chocolate and beat until thick enough to
  spread on cake.
  
  Source: Recipes from Ghirardelli Chocolate Company of San Francisco
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 

 

 
      Title: Grand Marnier Chocolate Pecan Torte
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 8 servings
 
-------------------------FOR TORTE------------------------------
      8 oz Ghirardelli Semi-Sweet
           -Chocolate
    1/2 c  Butter
    3/4 c  Sugar, divided
      6    Egg yolks
      2 tb Grand Marnier (orange
           -liqueur)
    1/2 ts Vanilla
  1 1/3 c  Very finely chopped pecans
    1/4 c  Dry bread crumbs
      7    Egg whites

------------------CHOCOLATE GANACHE GLAZE-----------------------
      4 oz Ghirardelli Semi-Sweet
           -Chocolate
    1/2 c  Heavy whipping cream
      2 ts Grand Marnier (orange
           -liqueur)
    1/3 c  Very finely chopped pecans
           Grand Marnier Whipped Cream

-------------------------DECORATION------------------------------
    3/4 c  Heavy whipping cream
      2 tb Powdered sugar
      2 ts Grand Marnier (orange
           -liqueur)
      1    Fresh orange, thin skin
           -variety
 
  Servings: 8
  
  DIRECTIONS: Torte: Melt broken chocolate in double boiler, stirring
  constantly, or microwave on medium for about 3 minutes. Set aside. In
  the small mixer bowl, cream butter, gradually adding 1/2 cup of the
  sugar; mix until very fluffy. Add egg yolks, liqueur and vanilla;
  beat until creamy. Transfer to larger bowl. Fold melted chocolate
  into creamed mixture. Use a food processor or blender to chop pecans
  to a coarse powder. Combine nuts with crumbs and fold into chocolate
  mixture. Beat egg whites with salt, gradually adding remaining 1/4
  cup sugar; beat until soft peaks form. Stir 1/4 of egg whites into
  chocolate mixture; fold in remaining egg whites. Pour batter into a
  buttered 9" springform pan lined with waxed paper. Bake at 350-F on
  bottom rack for 45-50 minutes or until center is firm. Cool on rack.
  Cake will sink slightly in the center. Remove pan and liner. Top with
  Chocolate Ganache Glaze and Grand Marnier Whipped Cream Decoration.
  
  Chocolate Ganache Glaze: Finely chop chocolate. Heat cream until hot.
  On very low heat add chocolate, stirring until smooth and thick.
  Remove from heat. Stir in liqueur. Turn torte, top side down, onto
  serving plate. Arrange strips of waxed paper under cake edge to catch
  excess glaze. Pour glaze over top and sides of cake. After a short
  time, run excess glaze up sides of cake. Cover sides of cake with
  nuts. Remove waxed paper strips. Chill cake while preparing topping.
  
  Grand Marnier Whipped Cream Decoration: Whip cream with sugar and
  liqueur until it holds a shape. Do not overbeat. Pipe rosettes or
  form a ring of whipped cream around top of chocolate glazed torte.
  With a sharp knife cut peel from orange. Slice into circles; cut into
  quarters. Place oranges around cake on top of whipped cream. If
  preferred, sprinkle grated orange rind over whipped cream. Cake
  should be stored in a cool place until served.
  
  Source: Recipes from Ghirardelli Chocolate Company of San Francisco
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 

 

 
      Title: Grandma's Chocolate Layer Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 2 servings
 
  2 1/4 c  Sifted Unbleached Flour
      1 ts Baking Powder
    1/2 ts Baking Soda
    1/2 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Butter Or Regular Margarine
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      2 lg Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 oz Unsweetened Chocolate,
           -Melted And Cooled (2 Sqrs)
      1 c  Cold Water
           Dark Chocolate Icing (Below)
 
  Yield: 12 Servings
  
  Sift the flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt togher in a
  small bowl and set aside.
  
  Cream the butter and sugar together, in a mixing bowl, until light and
  fluffy, using an electric mixer set on medium speed.  Add the eggs,
  one at a time, beating well after each addition.  Blend in the
  vanilla and cooled chocolate.
  
  Add the dry ingredients alternately with the water to the creamed
  mixture, beating well after each addition.  Pour the batter into 2
  greased and waxed paper-lined 9-inch round cake pans.
  
  Bake in a preheated 350 degree F. oven for 30 minutes or until the
  cake tests done.  Cool in the pans on racks for 10 minutes.  Remove
  from the pans and finish cooling.
  
  Place one cake layer on a serving plate upside down (slicing the top
  off in needed to level the cake) and frost the top.  Place the second
  layer on top of the first right side up (again slicing the top if
  needed to square the cake up) and use the remaining frosting to frost
  the sides and top. Use the following icing or one of your choice.
  
  DARK CHOCOLATE ICING:
  
  Melt 3 ozs (3 squares) of unsweetened chocolate over hot water and
  cool to room temperature.  Combine 1/2 cup of butter or regular
  margarine, cooled chocolate, 3 egg yolks in a mixing bowl.  Beat with
  an electric mixer, set on medium speed, until well blended. Gradually
  beat in 1 pound (1 box) of sifted confectioners' sugar and 1/4 cup
  hot water. Beat in 1 tsp vanilla and beat until smooth.
  
  From Farm Journal's Choice Chocolate Recipes by Elise W. Manning
  Copyright 1978
 

 

 
      Title: Great Chocolate Cake and Strawberry Shortcake Variation
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 8 servings
 
-------------------------BASIC CAKE------------------------------
      1 c  Ghirardelli Unsweetened
           -Cocoa
      2 c  Boiling water
      1 c  Melted butter
  2 1/2 c  Sugar
      4    Eggs
      2 ts Vanilla
  2 1/3 c  Unsifted cake flour
      2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
           Additional- for Great
           -Strawberry Chocolate

-------------------------SHORTCAKE------------------------------
      1 c  Heavy whipping cream
      2 tb Powdered sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla
           Strawberries
      2 oz Ghirardelli Semi-Sweet
           -Chocolate
 
  DIRECTIONS: Mix cocoa with boiling water, stirring with wire whip
  until smooth. Cool in refrigerator while preparing other ingredients.
  In large mixer bowl, beat butter with sugar, eggs, and vanilla on
  high speed 5 minutes. Sift flour with baking soda, baking powder and
  salt. On low speed, add dry ingredients alternately with cocoa and
  liquid, starting and ending with flour. (Do not overbeat.) Divide
  batter into 2 round pans (9 x 1 1/2") lined with buttered waxed
  paper. Bake at 350-F for 30 to 35 minutes or until cake tests dry
  with a toothpick. Cool in pans for 10 minutes; remove cake and cool
  on racks. Use 1 layer of cake for Great Strawberry Chocolate
  Shortcake dessert. The second layer may be frozen for other great
  chocolate desserts- or the 2 layers may be frosted together.
  
  For shortcake: Whip cream with powdered sugar and vanilla. Spread
  over top of 1 layer of cake. Arrange fresh strawberries on top. Melt
  chocolate and drizzle over berries. Chill to firm chocolate. Makes 8
  servings.
  
  Source: Recipes from Ghirardelli Chocolate Company of San Francisco
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 

 

 
      Title: Great Chocolate Cake (& Strawberry Shortcake Variation)
 Categories: Ghirardelli, Cakes
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           Basic Cake:
      1 c  Ghirardelli Unsweetened
           -Cocoa
      2 c  Boiling water
      1 c  Melted butter
  2 1/2 c  Sugar
      4    Eggs
      2 ts Vanilla
  2 1/3 c  Unsifted cake flour
      2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
           Additional- for Great
           -Strawberry Chocolate
           -Shortcake:
      1 c  Heavy whipping cream
      2 tb Powdered sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla
           Strawberries
      2 oz Ghirardelli Semi-Sweet
           -Chocolate
 
  DIRECTIONS: Mix cocoa with boiling water, stirring with wire whip
  until smooth. Cool in refrigerator while preparing other ingredients.
  In large mixer bowl, beat butter with sugar, eggs, and vanilla on
  high speed 5 minutes. Sift flour with baking soda, baking powder and
  salt. On low speed, add dry ingredients alternately with cocoa and
  liquid, starting and ending with flour. (Do not overbeat.) Divide
  batter into 2 round pans (9 x 1 1/2") lined with buttered waxed
  paper. Bake at 350-F for 30 to 35 minutes or until cake tests dry
  with a toothpick. Cool in pans for 10 minutes; remove cake and cool
  on racks. Use 1 layer of cake for Great Strawberry Chocolate
  Shortcake dessert. The second layer may be frozen for other great
  chocolate desserts- or the 2 layers may be frosted together.
  
  For shortcake: Whip cream with powdered sugar and vanilla. Spread
  over top of 1 layer of cake. Arrange fresh strawberries on top. Melt
  chocolate and drizzle over berries. Chill to firm chocolate. Makes 8
  servings.
  
  Source: Recipes from Ghirardelli Chocolate Company of San Francisco
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 

 

 
      Title: Gypsy John
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Cake flour
    1/4 c  Unsweetened cocoa
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
      3 lg Eggs
      1 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Water
      1 ts Vanilla
           Filling:
     10 oz (10 squares) semisweet
           -baking chocolate
      2 c  Heavy cream
      2 tb Rum
           Icing:
    1/4 c  Light corn syrup
      2 tb Hot water
      2 tb Butter
      1 pk (6 oz) semisweet chocolate
           -bits
 
  Cake:
  
  Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.  Line jelly roll pan with waxed paper;
  grease.
  
  Sift flour, cocoa, baking powder and salt together twice; set aside.
  Place eggs in small mixing bowl.  Beat with electric mixer 5 minutes
  or until thick and lemon-colored.  Slowly beat in sugar, a tbsp at a
  time. Mixture will become very thick.  Transfer to large mixing bowl.
  Beat in water and vanilla.  Slowly add flour mixture; beat until
  smooth.  Pour into prepared pan, spreading evenly to corners.  Bake
  12 to 15 minutes, or until cake tests done. Loosen from pan.  Turn
  out on rack; remove waxed paper. Invert; cool completely.
  
  Combine baking chocolate, broken into pieces, and cream in heavy
  saucepan. Heat slowly; stirring constantly, until chocolate melts.
  Transfer to medium-sized mixing bowl.  Stir in rum; chill 1 to 2
  hours. Beat with electric mixer until stiff and thick.  Cut cake in
  half crosswise.  Place 1 piece of cake on small cookie sheet.  Top
  with chocolate filling; spread to form even layer 1-1/2 inches thick.
  Top with remaining cake layer.  Chill at least 1 hour.
  
  Prepare frosting.  Combine corn syrup, water and butter in small
  saucepan. Bring to boil; cook until butter melts.  Remove from heat.
  Add chocolate bits; stir until chocolate melts.  Cool at room
  temperature.  Spread over top of cake.  Chill until frosting sets.
  
  Cut cake into 12 squares; arrange on decorative plate.
  
  Source:  Whitman's Chocolate Cookbook  ISBN 0-517-64157-7 Posted by:
  Kim Smith 116/35
 

 

 
      Title: Heath Bar Cake (Plain Jane)
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 9 servings
 
      2 c  Flour
      1 c  Brown sugar
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Butter
  1 1/4 c  Nuts, chopped
      1 c  Chocolate chips
      9    Heath Bars
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 c  Buttermilk
      1    Egg
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Calories     per serving:             Number of Servings:   9 Fat
  grams per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: 0:35 Cholesterol
  per serving: Marks:
  
  *DIRECTIONS*
  
  Preheat oven to 350.  Mix flour and sugars in a large bowl.  Cut in
  butter until as fine as cornmeal.  Set aside 1/2 of mixture for
  topping.
  
  Coarsely chop 7 Heath Bars.  Add them to remaining flour mixture,
  along with 1 cup chopped nuts, and chocolate chips.  Add baking soda
  to buttermilk and stir into mixture.  Add egg and vanilla, stirring
  well.
  
  Pour mixture into a prepared, greased and floured 9" x 13" pan.
  Coarsely chop remaining 2 Heath Bars.  Add to reserved crumb mixture
  along with remaining chopped nuts.  Sprinkle over batter.
  
  Bake at 350 degrees for 35 minutes.  Cool before serving
 

 

 
      Title: Hershey Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     10 oz Plain Hershey bars
    1/2 ts Soda
      1 c  Margarine or butter
      1 c  Buttermilk
      2 c  Sugar
      5    1/2 oz can Hershey Chocolate
           -Syrup
      4    Eggs
      2 ts Vanilla
  2 1/2 c  Flour
  2 1/2 c  Chopped nuts
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  Melt Hershey bars in double boiler. Cream margarine and sugar. Add
  melted Hershey bars. Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each
  addition. Sift together flour, salt, and soda and add alternately
  with buttermilk. Add chocolate syrup, vanilla and nuts. Bake in
  greased and floured tube pan at 325 degrees for 1 1/2 hours.
  
  Recipe by: Mrs. Frank Duke Found in: River Road Recipes II Shared by:
  Scott Ward
 

 

 
      Title: Holiday Ice Cream Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Ice cream, Entertain, Chocolate
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      8 oz Semisweet chocolate,
           -coarsely chopped
    3/4 c  Whipping cream
      2 tb Corn syrup
      3    Containers (each 1 quart)
           -ice cream
      9    Candy bars (50g)
     16    Chocolate sandwich cookies
           -(oreo)
    1/4 c  Slivered almonds, toasted
 
  Three shades of ice cream give a dramatic effect n a luscious and
  easy to make dessert that's great for kids of all ages. WE used
  chocolate,strawberry and vanilla, but why not choose your own favorite
  flavors? Add a variety of crispy, caramel, chocolate and peanut butter
  flavored candy bars.
  
  In top of double boiler over hot, not boiling, water, melt
  chocolate,cream and corn syrup, whicking until smooth; let cool. Let
  ice cream soften at room temperature for 30 minutes. Meanwhile, cover
  10 inch cardboard circle with waxed paper and place in 11 inch
  springform pan. Chop candy bars and cookies. Spread 1 container of
  ice cream over bottom. Sprinkle with half of the candy bars and
  cookies. Drizzle with 1/2 cup of the sauce. Repeat layers. Spread
  third container of ice cream on top; drizzle with remaining sauce.
  Sprinkle with almonds. Freeze for at least 3 hours. (Cake can be
  removed from pan, wrapped well and frozen for up to one month.) Let
  soften in refrigerator for 30 minutes before serving. Makes 16-20
  servings.
  
  Origin: Canadian Living, December 1991. Shared by: Sharon Stevens
 

 

 
      Title: Honey Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Sifted Flour
      1 ts Baking Powder
      1 ts Baking Soda
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Shortening
    1/2 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Honey
      1    Egg, Separated
      2 oz Chocolate, Melted
    1/4 c  Water
    1/2 c  Sour Milk
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Sift flour, baking powder, soda and salt together. Cream shortening
  with sugar and honey until fluffy. Add 1/2 cup dry ingredients and
  blend. Add beaten yolk and chocolate; beat thoroughly. Add dry
  ingredients and liquids alternately in small amounts, blending after
  each addition. Fold in stiffly beaten egg white. Bake in greased pan
  in moderate oven 350F for 40 to 50 minutes.
 

 

 
      Title: Hyde Park Fudge Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  5 1/3 oz Bitter chocolate (bakery
           -uses Guittard brand)
    2/3 c  Shortening
  2 2/3    Eggs (this is right -- comes
           -from conversion of recipe)*
  1 1/3 c  Water
    3/4 c  Sour milk
  1 1/3 ts Vanilla
      3 c  Flour
  2 3/4 c  Sugar
  1 1/3 ts Baking soda
  1 1/3 ts Salt
           Icing:
    3/4 c  Sugar
      6 tb Evaporated milk
      3 oz Chocolate, unsweetened
  1 1/2 ts Butter
 
  *Whether home cooks throw in that extra 1/3 egg is up to them, but
  baker and Rio Grande store manager Janine Gwaltney believes it makes a
  difference.  "Too much egg and the cake falls in the center," she
  says.
  
  Grease a Bundt pan.  Dust with fine bread crumbs and chill.
  
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees.  Melt the chocolate with the shortening.
  
  Combine eggs, water, milk, and vanilla.  Blend well.  Mix flour,
  sugar, soda, and salt thoroughly. (If you don't, the flour will clump
  in the batter.) Gradually add dry ingredients to liquid ingredients,
  blending on low speed of mixer until just mixed, scraping bowl well.
  Pour into pan and bake until done, 50-65 minutes. Cool in the pan 30
  minutes. Turn out on a cake rack and glaze with icing.
  
  Icing:  While cake is cooling, heat the sugar in the evaporated milk
  in the top of a double boiler until the sugar is dissolved. (The
  mixture will not feel grainy when rubbed between the fingers.) Melt
  butter and chocolate together.  Combine with chocolate mixture. You
  may add one to two tsp hot water to the icing to enhance the sheen.
  Pour icing over the cake.
  
  Texas French Bread bakery, Austin, TX
 

 

 
      Title: Impossible Chocolate Cheesecake
 Categories: Desserts, Cakes
      Yield: 1 servings
 
-----------------DEIDRE ANN PENROD  FGGT98B----------------------
      2    Cream cheese packages; *
    3/4 c  Sugar
    2/3 c  Bisquick baking mix
      2    Eggs
      2    Semisweet chocolate;**
      2 tb Kahula;***
      1 ts Vanilla extract
    1/2 ts Almond extract

---------------------CHOCOLATE TOPPING--------------------------
      1    Sour cream; 8-oz carton
      1 oz Semisweet chocolate square
      2 tb Sugar
      1 tb Kahula; ***
      1 ts Vanilla extract
 
  * 8-oz packages, cubed and softened ** 2 1-oz squares, melted *** Or
  any other coffee-flavored liqueur ~---------------- Mix all
  ingredients except chocolate topping in a mixer; beat at HIGH speed 2
  minutes, scraping bowl often. Pour into a greased 9-inch pie plate.
  Bake at 350^ for 25 minutes or until puffed with a dry center. Cool 5
  minutes; carefully spread chocolate topping on top of cheesecake.
  Chill 3 hours before serving. YIELD: One 9-inch pie. CHOCOLATE
  TOPPING: Combine first 3 ingredients in a small saucepan; cook over
  low heat, stirring constantly, until chocolate melts. Remove from
  heat, and stir in Kahula and vanilla; cool. SOURCE: Southern Living
  Cooking School Cookbook, Fall, 1982 From the cookbook
  
  Uploaded by Deidre Ann Penrod on Prodigy Shared by Judi M. Phelps -
  The San Jose Kid.
 

 

 
      Title: Italian Celebration Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1    Frozen family sized pound
           -cake, (16 oz) thawed
      3 tb Orange flavoured liqueur
           -(can subst. orange juice)
     15 oz Carton ricotta
    1/2 c  Mini chocolate chips
      3 tb Candied fruit
 
  Cocoa-Mocha Frosting (recipe follows)
  
  Slice top and end pieces off pound cake to form rectangle.  Slice
  crosswise to form three even layers.  Sprinkle top of each layer with
  liqueur or juice.  Put fine sieve over mdm bowl. Using rubber
  scraper, press Ricotta thru sieve.  Fold in canndied fruit and
  chocolate chips.  Place bottom layer of cake on heavy duty foil.
  Spread evenly with half of cheese mixture. Top with 2 nd layer of
  cake, top with remaining cheese. Top with third layer, wrap tightly
  with foil, chill for two or three hours until well chilled.
  
  Cover top and sides with mocha frosting.  Cover and refrigerate.
  
  Cocoa-mocha Frosting:
  
  1/2 c butter, softened 3 Tbsp warm water 3 tsp powdered instant
  coffee 1/3 c European style cocoa 1 1/2 c powdered sugar
  
  In sm mixer bowl, beat butter until creamy.  In sm c, mix coffee
  powder and warm water.  Mix cocoa and powdered sugar, add alternately
  to butter with the coffee mixture.  Beat until smooth and creamy.
  Frost top and sides of cake.  Makes about 2 c frosting.
 

 

 
      Title: Jamaican Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Self-rising flour
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Mixed Spice
    3/4 c  Margarine, softened
    3/4 c  Superfine sugar
      3    Eggs
      2 tb Unsweetened cocoa powder
      2 tb Hot water
    1/2 c  Granulated sugar
    2/3 c  Water
      2    Cinnamon sticks (2")
    1/4 c  Dark rum
      2 tb Slivered almonds
      6 oz Semisweet chocolate, broken
           -in pieces
           Whipped cream
 
  Preheat oven to 325'F. (165'C.). Generously grease a 5-cup fluted or
  plain tube pan and dust lightly with flour. Sift flour, baking powder
  and Mixed Spice into a bowl. Add margarine, superfine sugar and eggs.
  Blend cocoa powder with hot water and add to flour mixture. Beat well
  with a wooden spoon 2 minutes or 1 minute if using an electric mixer.
  Turn mixture into prepared pan. Bake in preheated oven 1-1/4 hours or
  until well risen and cake begins to shrink from edges of pan.
  Carefully turn out cake onto a wire rack and cool.
  
  Combine granulated sugar and 2/3 cup water in a saucepan. Add
  cinnamon and heat gently, stirring to dissolve sugar. Boil 5 minutes.
  Remove from heat, add rum and discard cinnamon. Place cake on a
  plate. Spoon syrup over cake and let stand 2 hours. Stud top of cake
  with almonds. Melt chocolate; carefully spooon over cake, spreading
  to give a smooth even coating. Let stand several hours. Pipe (with a
  pastry bag) whipped cream around bottom of cake.
 

 

 
      Title: James Beards Mothers Fruit Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    125 g  Glace cherries
     90 g  Glace apricot
    250 g  Glace pineapple
    125 g  Mixed peel
    300 g  Raisins
    125 g  Sultanas
    125 g  Currants
    1/3 c  Brandy
     90 g  Pecans
    1/4 c  Flour
     90 g  Butter
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Soft brown sugar
      3 lg Eggs
     45 g  Grated dark chocolate
      1 tb Brandy
    1/2 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
      1 pn Ground cloves
    1/2 ts Baking powder
 
  Place cherries, apricots, pineapple, peel, raisins, sultanas,
  currants in a bowl. Marinate in brandy 2 days stirring occasionaly.
  Add nuts and 1/4 cup of flour, stir well. Cream butter with two
  sugars add eggs mixing well between each. Add chocolate and brandy.
  Sift in flour, cinammon, nutmeg, cloves, baking powder. Add fruit mix
  and blend thoroughly. Pour into tin, hollow the centre, bake
  150degrees 2 1/2 to 3 hours. Paint with brandy and store at least two
  months to mature.
 

 

 
      Title: Kahlua Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
      1 pk White Cake Mix
  3 3/4 oz Chocolate Pudding Mix
      1 c  Oil
    1/4 c  Hot Water
      4 lg Eggs
    1/3 c  Kahlua Coffee Liqueur

--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
    1/4 c  Kahlua Coffee Liqueur
    1/2 c  Sifted Powdered Sugar
 
  Preheat oven to 350F.  Grease and flour a bundt cake pan, shake out
  excess flour.  Combine first six ingredients in a large bowl and beat
  thoroughly. Pour into pan.  Bake until tester inserted in center
  comes out clean, (about 50 to 60 minutes).  Let cool 5 minutes in
  pan, then invert onto rack.  Blend 1/4 cup Kahlua Coffee Liqueur and
  powdered sugar in a small bowl until smooth.  Drizzle evenly over
  warm cake.  Cool completely.
 

 

 
      Title: Kahlua Fudge Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    18 1/2 oz pkg chocolate cake
           -ix
      1    3 3/4 oz pkg chocolate insta
           -t pudding and pie fil
      4    Eggs, at room temperature
    1/2 c  Cold water
    1/2 c  Vegetable oil
    1/2 c  Kahlua or coffee liqueur
           Confectioner icing, optional
 
  Preheat oven to 325 degrees. In a large bowl, combine all ingredients
  and mix well. Pour into greased 12 cup Bundt or tube pan. Bake 50 to
  60 minutes. Cool. Invert onto a serving plate. Drizzle icing over top
  and sides, if desired.
 

 

 
      Title: Kahlua White Chocolate Valentine Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 3/4 c  Whipping cream
  3 1/2 oz Chopped white chocolate
    1/4 ts Vanilla
           CAKE:
      2 oz White chocolate
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
  1 1/3 c  Sifted cake flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder
           Salt
    1/4 c  (4 tablespoon) unsalted
           -butter room temperature
      1 c  Sugar
      1    Whole egg
      1    Separated egg
      6 tb Milk room temp
           KAHLUA SYRUP:
      3 tb Water
      1 ts Instant coffee powder
      1 ts Sugar
    1/4 c  Kahlua
 
  WHITE CHOCOLATE GANACHE:
  
  Prepare ganache before mixing and baking cake to allow it to chill.
  
  GANACHE: In large bowl of electric mixer, combine cream and
  chocolate. Set over simmering water until chocolate is melted. Stir
  until smooth. Refrigerate at least 4-5 hours, stirring occasionally,
  until very thick. Add vanilla and beat until stiff.
  
  CAKE: In small bowl set over simmering water, melt chocolate and cream
  together. Stir until smooth. Set aside to cool completely. In large
  bowl of electric mixer, beat batter until fluffy. Gradually beat in
  3/4 cup sugar. Beat in whole egg and egg yolk until smooth. Stir in
  cooled chocolate. Alternately stir in dry ingredients and milk,
  beginning and ending with dry ingredients and blending thoroughly
  after each addition. In small bowl, whisk egg white with dash of salt
  until soft peaks form. Whisk in remaining 1/4 cup sugar, beating
  until very thick and glossy and mixture falls from whisk in heavy
  ribbon. Gently fold egg white into batter. Pour batter into 8 or 9
  inch heart shaped cake pan which has been lined with butter and
  floured waxed paper. Bake on center shelf of oven at 350 degrees
  about 40 minutes or until wooden pick inserted in center comes out
  clean. Cool in pan 10 minutes. Turn out of pan, if necessary, first
  trim any excess crust away from pan rim, and carefully peel away
  paper. Cool completely. Transfer cake to serving plate. Using wood
  pick, poke holes about 1 inch deep and at about 1 inch intervals in
  top of cake. Frost with white chocolate ganache.
  
  KAHLUA SYRUP: In small saucepan, combine water, coffee powder and
  sugar. Stir over low heat to dissolve coffee and sugar. Bring to boil
  and pour into small bowl. Add kahlua and stir to blend. Cool.
 

 

 
      Title: Manhattan Beach Munchies
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      1 lb Bittersweet chocolate
      4    Eggs
      1 c  Butter; diced
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Strong coffee
    1/2 c  Flour
 
  MAKES 16 BROWNIES         OVEN TEMP: 375
     PREHEAT LINE A 9X13" SQUARE BAKING PAN WITH FOIL, ALLOWING FOIL TO
  STICK ABOUT 2" BEYOND THE  SIDES OF THE PAN. BUTTER THE BOTTOM AND
  SIDES OF THE PAN AND FOIL. IN A DOUBLE BOILER OVER HOT (NOT
  SIMMERING) WATER MELT THE CHOCOLATE WITH THE BUTTER AND COFFEE,
  STIRRING FREQUENTLY UNTIL SMOOTH. COOL THE MIX- TURE STIRRING IT
  OCCASIONALLY, FOR ABOUT TEN MINUTES.
     USING THE HIGH SPEED IN A MIXER, BEAT THE EGGS FOR 30 SECONDS,
  UNTIL FOAM. GRADUALLY ADD THE SUGAR AND CONTINUE TO BEAT FOR 2
  MINUTES OR UNTIL THE MIXTURE IS LIGHT AND FLUFFY. REDUCE THE MIXER TO
  LOW SPEED AND GRADUALLY ADD THE CHOCOLATE MIX- TURE UNTIL JUST
  BLENDED. STIR IN THE FLOUR BY HAND. DO NOT OVERBEAT THE MIXTURE. PUT
  THE BATTER INTO THE PAN AND BAKE ON THE CENTER RACK OF THE OVEN 28 TO
  30 MINUTES, THEY SHOULD REMAIN SLIGHTLY MOIST IN THE CENTER. COOL  ON
  A RACK FOR 30 MINUTES. COVER PAN TIGHTLY AND CHILL IN REFRIGERATOR
  MINIMUM OF 6 HOURS. REMOVE THE COVER AND RUN A KNIFE AROUND THE EDGE
  TO LOOSEN.  LIFT OUT OF PAN WITH OVERHANGING FOIL, INVERT AND PEEL
  OFF THE FOIL. INVERT AGAIN AND CUT INTO RECTANGLES.
 

 

 
      Title: Martha Washington Devil's Food Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Squares (1 oz) of
           -unsweetened chocolate
      2 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 c  Buttermilk
      2 c  Flour
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Butter or margarine
      3    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla.
 
  Martha Washington Devil's Food Cake (from Baker's Book of Chocolate
  Riches)
  
  Melt  chocolate  in a saucepan over a very low  heat,  stirring
  constantly until smooth.  Add 1/2 cup of the sugar and 1/2  cup of
  the buttermilk. Stir until well blended.  Cool  thoroughly. Mik
  flour, baking powder, soda and salt.  Cream  butter,  and gradualy
  beat in the remaining 1 1/2 cups sugar.   Continue beating until
  light and fluffy. Add eggs, one at a time, beating  thoroughly after
  each.  Blend in about  one-fourth  of the flour mixture,  then  add
  the  chocolate   &   vanilla. Alternately add the remaining flour and
  buttermilk,  beating after each addition until smooth.
  
  Pour  into two 9 inch greased & floured pans, and bake  at  350 for
  about 40 minutes.
  
  I  used a cream cheese frosting on the outside and  filled  the space
  between the layers with the chocolate frosting recipe  on the
  Hershey's cocoa box.
 

 

 
      Title: Mexican Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     12 oz Semi sweet chocolate. melted
      4    Eggs separated (room
           -temperature)
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1 c  Mayonnaise (room
           -temperature)
    3/4 c  Ground almonds
    1/4 c  Clour
    1/4 c  Kahlua
 
  From: SF Examiner Posted by: Emily Jorge, COOKING echo
  
  Mexican Chocolate Cake
  
  Confectioners' Sugar
  
  Line the bottom of a 9 inch springform pan with waxed paper. Lightly
  grease the wased paper and side of pan.  Melt the chocolate and cool
  to room temperature.  In a large bowl, with mixer at high speed, beat
  the egg yolks.  Graduly add sugar and beat until light about 4
  minutes. Add mayonnaise and beat for 1 minute longer. Stir in the
  ground almonds and flour until blended. Stir in Kahlus. In a medium
  bowl, using clean beater, beat egg whites until stiff and fold into
  the batter. Pour mixture into the prepared pan.  Bake at 350 for 55
  min. or until firm.
  
  Cool the cake in the pan on a wir rack for 10 minutes.  Remove the
  side of the pan and cool the cake 30 minutes longer. Invert onto a
  wire rack and remove bottom of pan and waxed paper.  Cool completely.
  Sprinkle with confectionr's sugar you might try using a geometric
  patter made from paper to create an interesting design instead of the
  old doilie trick. Hope this is it. Emily Jorge
 

 

 
      Title: Mock Hostess Cupcakes
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 22 servings
 
    1/2 c  Plus 2 tbsp clour
  2 1/2 tb Cocoa powder (preferably
           -Dutch process)
    3/4 ts Baking soda
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Water
      3 tb Vegetable oil
  1 1/2 ts Distilled white vinegar
      1 ts Vanilla extract
           FILLING
      1 c  Heavy whipping cream
      6 oz Finely chopped white
           -chocolate
           GLAZE
      3 oz Finely chopped bittersweet
           -chocolate
      3 tb Boiling water
           ICING
      1 tb Egg white, at room
           -temperature
      1 pn Of cream of tartar
    1/2 c  Plus 2 to 3 tbsp
           -confectioner's sugar
 
  These ultra-moist, dark chocolate mini-cupcakes are filled with creamy
  white chocolate ganache. They're a variation on a whimsical cupcake
  that Michael Roberts serves at Los Angeles's Trumps restaurant at
  teatime.
  
  CUPCAKES
  
  Make the cupcakes:
  
  1. Position a rack in the center and preheat oven to 325F. Lightly
  butter twenty-four 1-3/4" x 3/4" (1-oz) muffin of biscuit cups.
  
  2. Into a medium bowl, sift together the flour, cocoa, baking soda,
  and salt. Mix in the sugar. Make a well in the center. Whisk in the
  water, oil, vinegar, and vanilla. Blend until smooth. (The batter
  will be very thin.)
  
  3. Spoon the batter into the prepared cups. Bake until a cake tester
  inserted into the center of one of the cupcakes comes out clean,
  about 12 to 14 minutes. Cool the cupcakes in the pans on a wire rack
  for 5 minutes. Remove the cupcakes from the pans and finish cooling
  on the rack.
  
  Make the filling:
  
  4. In a heavy medium saucepan over medium-high heat, bring the cream
  to a boil. Add the white chocolate and remove from heat. let the
  mixture stand briefly; stir until smooth. Transfer to a metal bowl
  and refrigerate until chilled thoroughly, stirring occasionally. (To
  speed the process, set the metal bowl over a larger bowl of ice
  water; stir the chocolate mixture until cool.) With an electric
  mixer, beat the whit chocolate mixture just until fluffy, about 1
  minute.
  
  5. Transfer the filling to a pastry bag fitted with a 3/8-inch plain
  tip. Insert the pastry tip 1/4-inch into the bottom of each cupcake
  and squeeze a little filling into each one.
  
  Make the glaze:
  
  6. Place the chocolate in a small bowl. Whisk in the boiling water and
  blend until smooth. One at a time, dip the top of each cupcake into
  the warm glaze. Turn the glazed cupcakes right side up and set them
  on a wire rack on top of a baking sheet. Refrigerate the cupcakes for
  5 minutes to set the glaze.
  
  Make the icing:
  
  7. In a medium bowl, whisk the egg white until frothy. Stir in the
  cream of tartar. Gradually mix in enough of the confectioner's sugar
  to make a fairly stiff and smooth icing. Fill a small paper cone with
  the icing and cut a 1/16-inch opening at the tip. Remove the cupcakes
  from the refrigerator. Pipe a design (a squiggle, spiral, etc.) on
  the top of each cupcake. Let the design harden and then cover and
  refrigerate the cupcakes. Serve at room temperature.
  
  The cupcakes can be made and refrigerated up to 2 days in advance, or
  frozen up to 2 weeks.
  
  Makes 22 to 24 miniature cupcakes.
  
  Source: White Chocolate, by Janice Wald Henderson
 

 

 
      Title: New Year's Eve Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Entertain
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      3 c  Sifted Swan's Down Cake
           -Flour
      3 ts Calumet Baking Powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    2/3 c  Butter or other shortening
      2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Milk
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
      6    Egg whites, stiffly beaten
           Chocolate Cream Filling
      3    Squares Baker's Unsweetened
           -Chocolate
      2 c  Milk
    3/4 c  Sugar
      4 tb Swans Down Cake Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      2    Egg yolks, slightly beaten
      1 tb Butter
      1 ts Vanilla
           Hungarian Chocolate Frosting
      3    Squares Baker's Unsweetened
           -Chocolate
  1 1/2 c  Sifted confectioners' sugar
  2 1/2 tb Hot water
      3    Egg yolks
      4 tb Butter
 
  Sift flour once, measure, add baking powder and salt and sift together
  three times. Cream butter thoroughly, add sugar gradually, and cream
  together until light and fluffy. Add flour, alternately with milk, a
  small amount at a time, beating after each addition until smooth. Add
  flavoring. Fold in egg whites quickly and thoroughly. Bake in three
  greased 9-inch layer pans in moderate oven (375 degrees Fahrenheit)
  20 to 25 minutes. Spread Chocolate Cream Filling (page 43) between
  layers and Hungarian Chocolate Frosting (page 40) on top and sides of
  cake. When frosting is set, write the numbers from one to twelve
  around top of cake with white frosting to represent the face of a
  clock. Place hands of clock at twelve o'clock.
  
  Chocolate Cream Filling Add chocolate to milk and heat in double
  boiler. When chocolate is melted, beat with rotary egg beater until
  blended. Combine sugar, flour, and salt; add gradually to chocolate
  mixture and cook until thickened, stirring occasionally. Pour small
  amount of mixture over egg yolks, stirring vigorously; return to
  double boiler and cook 2 minutes longer, stirring constantly. Add
  butter and vanilla, and cool. Makes 2 1/2 cups filling, or enough
  filling to spread between three 9-inch layers. Use this filling in
  small cup cakes. Use 1/2 recipe for filling 2 1/2 to 3 dozen small
  cup cakes.
  
  Hungarian Chocolate Frosting Melt chocolate in double boiler. Remove
  from boiling water, add sugar and water, and blend. Add egg yolks,
  one at a time, beating will after each. Add butter, a tablespoon at a
  time, beating thoroughly after each amount. Makes enough frosting to
  cover the top of one 9-inch layer and sides of three 9-inch layers,
  or to cover the tops and sides of two 9-inch layers.
  
  Eat lots of this and you too can look like Kate Smith! Probably won't
  be able to sing as well though...
 

 

 
      Title: No Bake Rum Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 21 servings
 
      2 pk Stella Dora Annaset Sponge
      1 pk Vanilla Pudding (6 serving)
      1 pk Dark Sweet Chocolate Pudding
           -(6 serving)
      1 oz Bottle Rum Flavoring
      9 oz Cool Whip
    1/2 c  Slivered Almonds
     12    Maraschino Cherries, halved
           Milk
 
  Fill a soup dish with milk. Dip sponges guickly and blot on paper
  towel. Line entire bottom of a 13x9x2 pan, packing tightly and
  refrigerate. Prepare vanilla pudding and cool down 10 minutes, add 2
  teaspoons of rum. Cool, pour over shell and refrigerate. Prepare
  chocolate pudding, add 2 teaspoons of rum and refrigerate. When cool,
  pour over the vanilla layer and let stand 30 minutes. Spread with
  cool whip and sprinkle with nuts. Refrigerate for 24 hours. When
  ready to serve, place cherries on each slice.
  
  Source: "The Yankee Kitchen" 03-17-93 (#4) [Joan from Rocklyn, Mass]
 

 

 
      Title: Orange-Almond Sour Cream Cake with Chocolate Chips
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/3 c  Chocolate mini-morsels OR 2
           -ounces semisweet
           Chocolate cut into small
           -pieces
    1/2 ts Orange-flavored liqueur
      1 ts PLUS 1 2/3 cups sifted cake
           -flour
      2    Eggs
    2/3 c  Sour cream
      1 ts Orange flower water * OR
           -vanilla extract
    2/3 c  Sugar
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Unblanched sliced almonds,
           -toasted, cooled
           And ground fine (1 1/4
           -ounces)
      1 tb Grated zest from 1 medium
           -orange
     11 tb Unsalted butter, softened
           * NOTE: The orange flower
           -water, which is used to
           -flavor
           The batter, is distilled
           -fromn orange blossoms
           And can be purchased at
           -liquor stores, pharmacies
           And Middle Eastern or Indian
           -food narkets.
           ORANGE SYRUP
    1/3 c  Sugar
      3 tb Orange juice
    1/4 c  Orange-flavored liqueur
 
  For the cake:  Grease and flour a 6-cup fluted tube pan and set
  aside. Mix the chocolate chips and liqueur in a small bowl.  Add 1
  tablespoon of flour and toss to coat the chips.  Set aside. Beat the
  eggs, 3 tablespoons of the sour cream, and the orange flower water in
  a medium bowl; set aside. Mix the next six ingredients plus the
  remaining 1 2/3 cups of flour in a large bowl at very low speed. Add
  the butter and remaining sour cream; beat at low speed until the dry
  ingredients are moistened. Beat a t medium speed for 1 1/2 minutes to
  aerate and develop the cake's structure. Gradually beat in the egg
  mixture, one-third at a time, scraping down the sides of the bowl as
  it becomes necessary. Stir in the chocolate chip mixture. Adjust the
  oven rack to middle position and heat the oven to 350F. Pour the
  batter into the prepared pan and smooth the surface with a spatula.
  Bake until a cake tester inserted in the center comes out clean and
  the center springs back when touched, 40 to 45 minutes. Transfer the
  cake in its pan to a wire rack.  Prick the entire cake top with a
  toothpick. For the syrup: Put the sugar, orange juice, and
  orange-flavored liqueur in a small saucepan.  Bring to a boil and
  simmer until the sugar dissolves, about 1 minute. Brush the top of
  the cake with half the syrup. Cool the cake in the pan for 10
  minutes.  Remove the cake from the pan and place, rounded side up, on
  a cake plate.  Brush cake surface with the remaining syrup; cool
  completely.  (Can wrap and store at room temperature up to 3 days,
  refrigerate up to 7 days, or freeze up to 2 months.) To serve: (Bring
  the cake to room temperature.)  Cut cake in slices and serve.
  
  Makes 8 servings.
  
  [ COOKS Magazine; October 1989 ]
 

 

 
      Title: Oreo Cookie Tube Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     25    Cream filled sandwich cookie
      3 c  Flour
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
  1 1/4 c  Milk
      1 c  Shortening
  2 1/2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla
      4    Large eggs

----------------------CHOCOLATE GLAZE---------------------------
      6 oz Pk semi-sweet choco-chips
      3 tb Shortening
      1 tb Milk
      1 tb Corn syrup
 
  Preheat oven to 350 F. Grease and flour 9" fluted tube pan. Cut each
  cookie into quarters. In large bowl, with mixer at low speed,beat
  flour and remaining ingredeints except cookies and chocolate glaze
  until blended. Increase speed to high, beat 2 minutes, scraping bowl.
  Sppon about 3/4 cup batter into pan. Gently stir cut-up cookies into
  remaining batter and spoon into same pan. Bake 50 minutes or until
  cake springs back when lightly touched with finger ( toothpick test
  won't work). Cool cake in pan on wire rack 10 minutes;remove from
  pan; cool on rack. When cake is cooled, prepare chocolate galze. In 1
  quart saucepan over low heat, heat chocolate chips, shortening, milk,
  cornsyrup, stirring until melted and smooth. Place rack with cake
  oven large plate to catch drips, then pour warm glaze over top and
  sides of cake. This cake freezes well, and is wonderful cold from the
  refrigerator.
 

 

 
      Title: Outstanding Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Sifted cake flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Butter or regular margarine
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 oz Unsweetened chocolate,
           -melted and cooled
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 c  Iced water
 
  This is a 45 year old recipe from Illinois that our Farm Journal
  tasting staff rated "fantastic." Tender crumbed, deep chocolate
  flavor, with an ultra creamy frosting that tastes like chocolate
  whipped cream.
  
  Whipped chocolate frosting (recipe follows) Sift together cake, baking
  powder and salt; set aside.  Cream together butter and sugar in
  mixing bowl until light and fluffy, using electric mixer at medium
  speed. Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition.
  Blend in vanilla and cooled chocolate, mixing well.  Combine baking
  soda and iced water; stir until baking soda is dissolved.  Add dry
  ingredients alternately with iced water mixture to creamed
  mixture,beating well after each addition. Pour patter into greased
  13x9x2 inch baking pan.  Bake in 350F oven for 35 minutes or until
  cake tests done. Cool in pan on rack 10 minutes.  Remove from pan.
  Cool on rack.  Frost sides and top of cake with whipped chocolate
  frosting. Cut in squares. Makes 16 servings. WHIPPED CHOCOLATE
  FROSTING Combine 2 (1oz) squares unsweetened chocolate and 2 tbsp
  butter or regular margarine in small saucepan.  Heat over low heat
  until chocolate and butter are melted.  Cool slightly.  Combine
  cooled chocolate mixture, 1 cup sifted confectioners sugar, 1 egg,
  1/8 tsp salt, 1/4 cup milk and 1 tsp vanilla in metal mixing bowl.
  Set bowl in another bowl filled with ice cubes and water. Beat with
  electric mixer at high speed until mixture becomes light and fluffy,
  and forms soft peaks, about 5 minutes. Origin: Farm Journal's Choice
  Chocolate Recipes Shared by: Sharon Stevens
 

 

 
      Title: Panama Canal Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 c  All purpose flour
    1/2 c  Butter, melted
    1/2 c  Nuts, your choice; chopped
     16 oz Whipped topping
      1 c  Powdered sugar
      8 oz Cream cheese
      3 c  Cold milk, divided
      1    4 oz pkg chocolate pudding m
           -x
      1    4 oz pkg vanilla pudding mix
      1 ts Vanilla
           More chopped nuts
 
  Mix flour, butter and nuts. Press into a 9 x 13" baking dish. Bake in
  a 400 degree oven for 10 to 15 minutes until browned. Cool. Combine
  one container of whipped topping with the powdered sugar and cream
  cheese. Spread over cooled crust. Mix 1 1/2 cup cold milk with
  chocolate pudding and spread over the cream cheese layer. Mix 1 1/2
  cups cold milk with vanilla pudding and spread over the cream cheese
  layer. Top with one container of whipped topping and sprinkle nuts
  over the top.
 

 

 
      Title: Passover Chocolate Sponge Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     12    Eggs, separated
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      2 tb Cold water
           Juice and grated rind of 1
           -orange
    1/2 lb Sweet chocolate, grated
    3/4 c  Matzo cake flour
 
  Preheat oven to 350^F.
  
  Beat egg yolks and sugar until light and fluffy (about 7 minutes).
  Add cold water, orange juice, orange rind, chocolate and cake flour.
  Gently fold in stiffly beaten egg whites.
  
  Pour into a 10-inch tube pan with removable insert.  Bake for 55 to 65
  minutes or until cake springs back when gently pressed. Cool
  completely, inverted on cake rack, before removing from pan.
 

 

 
      Title: Passover Dark Chocolate Nut Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 10 servings
 
     10    To 12 eggs
      3 oz Unsweetened chocolate
    1/2 c  Semisweet chocolate pieces
    2/3 c  Sugar
      2 c  Very finely chopped almonds
           -or pecans
    3/4 ts Pure vanilla
    1/4 ts Almond extract
    1/4 c  Sugar
           DARK CHOCOLATE GLAZE:
      1 c  Semisweet chocolate pieces
      1 ts Butter or margarine
    1/2 ts Instant coffee crystals
      1 tb Hot water
      3 tb Dairy sour cream
    1/4 ts Maple flavoring
 
  Servings: 10 to 15
  
  DIRECTIONS: Set a large mixer bowl in a sink filled with 2 inches of
  warm water. Separate eggs (you should have about 1 1/2 cups whites).
  Pour the whites into the warm mixer bowl and place yolks in a smaller
  mixer bowl (or let separated eggs stand, covered, at room temperature
  for 30 minutes).
  
  Meanwhile, in a small, heavy saucepan, partially melt unsweetened
  chocolate and semisweet chocolate pieces over low heat. Turn off heat
  and stir (chocolate will continue to melt).
  
  Cut a waxed paper liner for the bottom of a 10" tube pan, cutting it
  1/2" wider than the pan and the center hole slightly larger than the
  tube. Grease pan thoroughly. Place liner in pan and grease liner.
  
  Beat egg yolks with an electric mixer on high speed for about 4
  minutes or till they're thick and lemon colored. Add the 2/3 cup
  sugar, beating till very thick. Stir in the melted chocolate and
  chopped nuts.
  
  Thoroughly wash and dry beaters. Beat egg whites with vanilla and
  almond extract till foamy. Gradually add the 1/4 cup sugar to egg
  whites, beating till soft peaks form.
  
  Lighten egg yolk mixture with about 2 cups beaten egg whites. Add to
  the remaining egg white mixture and fold together to combine. Turn
  batter into prepared pan.
  
  Bake at 350-F for about 40 minutes or till top springs back when
  lightly touched. Run a knife around the edge of the pan and center to
  loosen. Cool in pan for 1 hour. Invert onto cake plate. Remove waxed
  paper.
  
  Prepare glaze; spread over top and sides of cake.
  
  Dark Chocolate Glaze: In a small heavy saucepan or skillet, melt
  chocolate over low heat. Remove from heat and stir in butter or
  margarine. In a small bowl, dissolve instant coffee in hot water.
  Stir in the sour cream and maple flavoring. Add sour cream mixture to
  chocolate, stirring till smooth and shiny. Makes 3/4 cup.
  
  Source: Midwest Living Magazine, April 1991
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 

 

 
      Title: Perfect Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Cocoa
      2 c  Boiling water
      1 c  Butter, softened
  2 1/2 c  Sugar
      4    Eggs
  2 3/4 c  Flour (I used cake flour and
           -suggest others do so also)
      2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
           Whipped Cream Filling:
      1 c  Whipping cream,
      1 ts Vanilla, and
    1/4 c  Sifted powdered sugar
           Perfect Chocolate Frosting:
      1    (6 oz) package seme-sweet
           -chocolate morsels,
    1/2 c  Half and half,
    3/4 c  Butter
  2 1/2 c  Sifted powdered sugar
 
  This cake is from the December 1990 "Southern Living" article on the
  best recipes of the past 25 years.  We've tried it, and it is a
  stunner!  First printed in December 1977, a recipe submitted by
  Dondee Gage Steves of San Antonio, Texas.
  
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees.  Grease and flour 3 9" round cake pans.
  
  Combine cocoa and boiling water, stir until smooth, then set aside.
  
  Cream butter, gradually add sugar, beating well at mdm speed of an
  electric mixer.  Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each
  addition.
  
  Combine flour, soda, baking powder, and salt; add to creamed mixture
  alternating with cocoa mixture, beating at low speed of an electric
  mixer, beginning and ending with the flour mixture. Stir in the
  vanilla.  Do not overbeat.
  
  Pour pans and ake 20 minutes or until a wooden pick inserted into the
  center comes out clean. Cool pans 10 minutes. Remove the cake from
  pans; cool completely.
  
  Spread filling between layers; spread frosting on top and sides. Chill
  until serving time.
  
  Filling: Beat whipping cream and vanilla until foamy.  Gradually add
  powdered sugar, beating until soft peaks form.  Chill.
  
  Yield: 2 c
  
  Frosting: Combine chocolate, half and half, and butter in a heavy
  saucepan; cook over mdm heat, stirring until chocolate melts (I used
  a glass measuring c and the microwave). Remove from heat; add
  powdered sugar, mixing well.
  
  Set saucepan in ice, and beat at low speed of an electric mixer until
  the frosting holds its shape and loses its gloss.  Add a few more
  drops of half-and-half if needed to make spreading consistency.
  
  Yield: 2 1/2 c
 

 

 
      Title: Peter Paul Mounds Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Deep chocolate cake mix
      1 c  Milk
      1 c  Sugar
     24 lg Marshmallows
     14 oz Coconut
           -!!!-ICING-!!!-
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Evaporated milk
      1    Stick (1/2 cup) butter or
           -oleo
 
  Bake a deep chocolate cake mix in a large sheet cake pan. While cake
  is baking, mix together next three ingredients, milk, sugar and
  marshmallows.
  
  Heat until marshmallows are melted. Remove from heat and add 14 oz.
  coconut. Spread above mixture on slightly warm cake.
  
  FOR THE ICING: Cook until boiling. Take off heat and add 1 1/2 cup
  chocolate chips. Stir until chips are melted. Spread on cake.
  
  Source:  Donna Ransdell, FidoNet Cooking Echo
 

 

 
      Title: Potato Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Butter
      1 c  Potatoes, mashed; hot
      1 c  Pecans; chopped
    1/2 c  Milk, sweet
      2 c  Flour
      4    Egg; well beaten
      5 ts Chocolate; melted
      1 ts Cloves
      1 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Nutmeg
      4 ts Baking powder
 
  Cream well the butter and sugar.  Add the other ingredients, leaving
  the eggs and baking powder till the last.  Moisten the baking powder
  with a tablespoon of water the fold it and the eggs in lightly.  Bake
  in layer pans about 40 minutes [in a 350 F. oven, until a toothpick
  tests clean]. For filling, use cooked icing with a dozen marshmallows
  beaten in while the icing is hot.  If you desire, you may add nuts
  and raisins to the icing.
  
                                        Ola Cunningham
                                        Comanche Study Club cookbook
                                        Comanche, TX, 1927
 

 

 
      Title: Potato Devil's Food Cake
 Categories: Cakes, 1941
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Shortening
  2 1/4    Squares unsweetened
           -chocolate
      1    Egg
      6 tb Evaporated milk
      2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Mashed potatoes
    1/4 ts Salt
  1 1/4 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts
 
  Cream shortening.  Add sugar, chocolate, which has been melted over
  hot water, and mashed potatoes.  Beat thoroughly.  Add egg yolk and
  milk. Sift flour, measure, and sift with baking powder and salt. Beat
  thoroughly. Add nuts and flavoring.  Fold in stiffly beaten egg
  white. Pour into well-oiled layer cake pans. Bake in moderate oven
  (375 F) 25-30 minutes. Mrs. H.E. Chrisman, Scottsbluff, NE.
 

 

 
      Title: Prune Chocolate Cup Cakes
 Categories: Cakes, 1941
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  Cream
      2    Eggs
      2 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Cooked prunes
      1 ts Vanilla
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2    Squares bitter chocolate
      3 ts Baking powder
 
  Pit prunes and cut in pieces.  Beat eggs until thick and creamy. Add
  to cream, and sugar.  Mix well.  Sift flour, measure, and sift with
  baking powder and salt.  Add grated chocolate.  Beat thoroughly. Add
  prunes and flavoring.  Mix well.  Pour into well-oiled muffin tins.
  Bake in moderate oven (375 F) about 15 minutes. If desired, use 2
  teaspoons baking powder and 1/2 teaspoon baking soda with 1 1/4 cups
  sour cream. The Household Searchlight
 

 

 
      Title: Queen of Sheba Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           Cocoa-almond cake:
      1 c  Almonds; blanched, toasted
     16 ts Sugar
    1/2 c  All-purpose flour
    1/4 c  Cocoa powder
      1 ts Baking powder
      6    Eggs, separated, room temper
           -ture
    1/4 ts Cream of tartar
    1/3 c  Butter, melted and cooled
           Chocolate parfait:
     12 oz Bittersweet chocolate, coars
           -ly chopped
      1 c  Milk
      8    Egg yolks, room temperature
  1 1/3 c  Sugar
      2 c  Whipping cream, well-chilled
    1/2 c  Amaretto liqueur
    1/4 c  Water
           Chocolate whipped cream:
      2 oz Bittersweet chocolate, coars
           -ly chopped
      1 c  Whipping cream, well-chilled
      4 ts Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
           Almonds; whole, blanched
           Chocolate garnishes, optiona
           -
 
  Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees. Cover
  bases of two 9" springform pans with foil, then attach sides. Finely
  grind almonds with 4 tbsp sugar. Sift flour, cocoa, baking powder
  into a small bowl. Stir in almond mixture. Beat yolks and 8 tbsp
  sugar using electric mixer until slowly dissolving ribbons form when
  beaters are lifted, about 6 minutes. Beat whites in another bowl,
  with cream of tartar until stiff but not dry. Gradually, add
  remaining 4 tbsp of sugar and beat until whites are stiff and shiny.
  Fold 1/3 of almond/cocoa mixture into yolks, then 1/3 of egg whites.
  Repeat twice, folding in melted butter just before final 1/3 of
  whites is incorporated. Spoon 1/2 of batter into each pan, smoothing
  surface with spatula. Bake until tester inserted in center of cake
  comes out dry, about 20 minutes. Cool in pans on rack 5 minutes.
  Invert onto rack and cool cakes completely. Melt chocolate in top of
  double boiler over hot, but not boiling water. Bring milk to simmer
  in heavy medium saucepan over low heat. Whisk yolks and sugar in bowl
  until smooth. Gradually, whisk in hot milk, return to saucepan. Stir
  over low heat until mixture leaves path on back of spoon when finger
  is drawn across it, about 5 to 7 minutes. Do Not Boil. Gradually,
  whisk custard into chocolate until smooth. Cool completely, stirring
  occasionally. Whip cream to soft peaks. Fold into cooled chocolate
  mixture in 3 batches. To assemble, cut each cake into 2 layers, using
  a serrated knife. Set one layer, cut side up in the 9" springform
  pan. Combine liqueur and water. Brush 4 tbsp onto cake in pan. Spoon
  1/4 of chocolate parfait over cake, spreading to edge. Top with
  second layer, cut side up. Repeat with liqueur and parfait. Add third
  layer and repeat. Add forth layer and repeat, smoothing top of
  parfait with a spatula. Cover and freeze until firm, at least 4
  hours. Remove pan sides. Refrigerate cake while preparing cream. Melt
  chocolate in double boiler over hot, but not boiling water. Stir
  until smooth. Remove from over water. Whip cream with sugar and
  vanilla to stiff peaks. Whisk in chocolate. Spoon mixture into a
  pastry bag fitted with medium star tip. Set cake on serving platter.
  Pipe decorative whipped cream rosettes around edge of cake. Set
  almonds in rosettes. Mayalso use chocolate leaves or curls as garnish.
 

 

 
      Title: Red Devil's Food Cake - Betty Crocker
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  1 2/3 c  All-purpose flour
      1 c  Granulated sugar
    1/2 c  Packed brown sugar
    1/2 c  Shortening
  1 1/2 c  Buttermilk
  1 1/2 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 oz Unsweetened chocolate
      2    Eggs
      1    Rec. Creamy Vanilla Frosting

------------------CREAMY VANILLA FROSTING-----------------------
      3 c  Powdered sugar
    1/3 c  Margarine/butter, softened
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
      2 tb Milk, about
 
  Melt and cool the 2 ounces of chocolate. Heat oven to 350 degrees.
  Grease and flour 2 round pans, 8 or 9 x 1 1/2 inches. Beat all
  ingredients except Creamy Vanilla Frosting on low speed 30 seconds,
  scraping bowl constantly. Beat on high speed 3 minutes, scraping bowl
  occasionally. Pour into pans. Bake 30 to 35 minutes or until wooden
  pick inserted in center comes out clean. Cool 10 minutes; remove from
  pans. Cool completely. Fill layers and frost cake with Creamy Vanilla
  Frosting. Creamy Vanilla Frosting: Mix powdered sugar and margarine.
  Stir in vanilla and milk until smooth and of spreading consistency.~
  ~ Source: Betty Crocker Creative Recipes, "In Love With Chocolate".
 

 

 
      Title: Reine De Saba
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 oz Semisweet chocolate
      4 oz Slivered almonds
    2/3 c  Confectioners sugar - PLUS 2
           -tablespoons
    1/2 c  Cake flour
      3    Eggs
      1    Stick butter
    1/2 ts Almond extract
           CHOCOLATE GLAZE*
      3 oz Semisweet chocolate
      2 oz Butter
           Slivered almonds for garnish
 
  Calories     per serving:             Number of Servings:   6 Fat
  grams per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: Cholesterol per
  serving: Marks:
  
  *DIRECTIONS*
  
  *For the nicest looking shiny glaze, serve this cake on the day it is
  completed.  The cake remains moist and delicious, however, for several
  days.
  
  PREPARATION: Heat oven to 325F. Butter and flour an 8-inch square or
  10-inch round cake pan. Cut the 4 ounces of chocolate into small
  pieces and melt in the top of a double boiler set over hot water,
  stirring frequently. Remove pan from hot water and cool slightly. In
  a food processor, nut grinder or blender, grind the 4 ounces of
  almonds to a powder. If you use a processor or blender, put 2
  tablespoons of the sugar in the machine along with the nuts.  Put
  ground nuts through a sieve to get rid of any remaining chunks.  Toss
  the powdered almond mixture with the flour. Separate the eggs.  Beat
  together the butter and 1/3 cup of the remaining sugar until creamy
  and light.  Add the melted chocolate and the extract. Add the egg
  yolks, one at a time, beating thoroughly after each addition. Beat
  the whites to stiff peaks, add the remaining sugar, and beat until
  glossy. Fold in nut mixture.  Gently followed egg white mixture into
  chocolate just until incorporated. Pour the batter into the prepared
  pan. Bake in a preheated oven until a toothpick inserted in the
  center of the cake comes out almost clean, about 30 minutes. Cool in
  the pan for about 10 minutes. Divide into individual servings if
  desired. Recipe can be made to this point up to a day ahead.
  
  CHOCOLATE GLAZE: Heat the chocolate and butter in the top of a double
  boiler set over hot water, stirring frequently, until just melted.
  Remove from hot water. Cool the chocolate glaze just until it
  thickens. It should remain pourable. Glaze whole cake or individual
  servings on a rack set over a pan to catch drippings. Garnish with
  almonds if desired.
  
  Serve at room temperature or refrigerate for up to 4 days.
  
  Serves 6.
  
  Recipe from Cook's Magazine, September/October, 1987.
 

 

 
      Title: Rich Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Cocoa
    1/2 c  Buttermilk
    1/2 ts Vanilla
    1/4 lb Butter, unsalted
      1    Egg
      1 c  Flour, Cake
    1/2 ts Baking Soda
      1 pn Salt
      2 oz Chocolate, bittersweet
    1/4 c  Cream, Heavy
    1/4 ts Vanilla
 
  Calories     per serving:             Number of Servings:  10 Fat
  grams per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: Cholesterol per
  serving: Marks:
  
  *DIRECTIONS*
  
  Preparations:  Divide sugar and buttermilk as below.  Beat egg. Soften
  butter.  Preheat oven to 375 degrees.
  
  Butter and flour and 2-inch deep, 8-inch round cake pan and set
  aside. Beat 1/2 cup sugar, cocoa, 1/4 cup buttermilk, and vanilla.
  
  In another bowl, combine butter and 1/2 cup sugar; beat until light
  and creamy.  Add beaten egg a little at a time, beating until smooth
  between each addition. Beat in the cocoa mixture.
  
  Combine cake flour, baking soda, and salt.  Resift together and beat
  into the butter/cocoa mixture in two parts alternating with 1/4 cup
  buttermilk. Pour batter into prepared pan and bate at 375 degrees for
  30 - 35 minutes. Let cake rest a few minutes before turning out onto
  a cake rack to cool.
  
  For a glaze:  In a double boiler, melt chocolate, cream, and vanilla.
  Stir until smooth and let cool to warm.  Pour over cake.
  
  If desire, before glazing, split cake in half and spread your choice
  of filling between the layers.
  
  From Williams-Sonoma's April, 1991 Catalogue, page 7.
 

 

 
      Title: Romano's Reese's Peanut Butter Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    3/4 c  Unsalted butter
    3/4 c  Creamy style peanut butter
      2 c  Packed brown sugar
      3    Eggs
      2 c  Unsifted all purpose flour
      1 tb Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Milk
      1 ts Vanilla
           Peanut Butter Filling:
      1 c  Cream cheese, softened
    1/2 c  Creamy style peanut butter
           Chocolate Glaze:
    1/2 c  Water
      4 tb Unsalted butter
    1/2 c  Cocoa
      1 c  Unsifted powdered sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees.  Grease and flour 2 9" cake pans.
  
  In large mixing bowl, cream butter and peanut butter until light and
  fluffy.  Add brown sugar.  Mix to blend.  Add eggs, one at a time,
  mixing well after each addition.
  
  In small bowl, combine flour, baking powder and salt.  Add flour
  mixture to butter and peanut butter mixture alternately with milk,
  beginning and ending with flour mixture.  Add vanilla.
  
  Pour batter into pans.  Bake until cake tests done, about 45 minutes.
  Cool on wire rack to room temperature before frosting the cake.
  
  Spread half of Peanut Butter Filling over tops of each cake. Chill.
  
  Spread half of warm Chocolate Glaze over peanut butter topping on each
  cake, using metal spatula dipped in hot water.  As glaze cools, it
  will thicken.
  
  Peanut Butter Filling: Cream ingredients together until light and
  fluffy.
  
  Chocolate Glaze: Place water and butter in small saucepan. Bring to
  boil. Add cocoa, sugar and vanilla to water mixture. Mix until smooth.
  
  NOTE:  This recipe will make two 9 inch cakes or one stacked layer
  cake. If making the stacked layer cake, the Peanut Butter Filling
  should be put between the layers and on top of the cake before
  topping it with the Chocolate Glaze.
  
  Source: San Antonio Express News
 

 

 
      Title: Seven-Layer Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 14 servings
 
      7    Eggs, separated
      1 c  Confectioners' sugar
      1 c  Sifted cake flour
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 lb Sweet chocolate
      3 tb Cold water
           Frosting (filling)
           -ingredients:
      3    Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 lb Butter
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Cake ingredients:
  
  Cake directions:
  
  Beat egg yokes until thick and lemon colored.  Add confectioners'
  sugar gradually, beating constantly.  Sift flour and salt together
  and fold into yolk mixture.  Beat egg whites until stiff enough to
  hold a peak and fold in lightly.
  
  Line seven-layer cake pans with paper and grease the paper.  Divide
  batter evenly among pans and bake in moderate oven (350 degrees F.)
  for 12 minutes.  Remove from pans at once.
  
  Frosting (filling) directions:
  
  For the frosting, heat chocolate and water in the top of double
  boiler. Mix eggs and sugar thoroughly, combine with melted chocolate
  and cook until thick, stirring constantly.  Remove from heat; add
  butter and beat until well blended.  Add vanilla and continue beating
  until filling is stiff enough to spread.  Cover each layer and top
  and sides of cake with filling.
  
  NOTE:  It may be necessary to place several toothpicks through the top
  layers to hold them in place until filling sets.
  
  Serve after 24 hours. Serves 14 to 16.
  
  From the Wed 06-17-1992 edition of The El Paso Times newspaper.
  Posted by John P. Nicholson
 

 

 
      Title: Sour Cream Coffee Cake W/ Chocolate & Walnuts
 Categories: Cakes, Entertain
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           -Dottie Cross TMPJ72B
      1 c  (2 sticks) unsalted butter;
           -softened
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2 c  Sifted all-purpose flour
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Baking soda
      2 ts Baking powder
      3    Large eggs
      1 c  Sour cream
      2 ts Vanilla extract
      1 c  Coarsely chopped walnuts
      4 oz Bittersweet chocolate;
           -coarsely chopped
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Butter and flour a 10-to 12-cup fluted
  tube pan. In a large bowl, using a hand-held electric mixer set at
  high speed, beat the butter until creamy, about 1 minute. Add the
  sugar and continue beating at high speed until light and creamy,
  about 2 minutes. Sift together the flour, salt, baking soda, and
  baking powder. At low speed, beat in 1/2 cup of the flour mixture,
  then beat in 1 of the eggs. Beat in another 1/2 cup of the flour
  mixture, then 1 of the remaining eggs. Repeat with another 1/2 cup of
  the flour mixture, and the last egg. Beat in the remaining flour
  along with the sour cream and vanilla. Using a spatula, fold in the
  walnuts and chocolate. Transfer the batter to the prepared pan and
  smooth the surface. Bake for 45 to 55 minutes in the preheated oven
  until the cake begins to shrink from the sides of the pan and a
  toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean. The surface will
  crack. Remove the cake from the oven and let cool for about 10
  minutes in the pan, then turn it out onto a wire cake rack. Cool
  completely before serving. Serves 12. Source: An Edible Christmas"
  cookbook by Irena Chalmers. Reformatted by: CYGNUS, HCPM52C
 

 

 
      Title: Spaceship Cake
 Categories: Chocolate, Cakes
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1    Layer chocolate cake mix
      2 c  Almonds, slivered
      5 tb Hot water
    1/2 c  Light corn syrup
    1/4 c  Margarine, melted
      2 c  Chocolate chips
  2 1/2 c  Hot Fudge Sauce (can be used
           -in place of last 4
 
  Makes 10 Servings
  
  ingredients above)
  
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
  
  Prepare cake mix as directed.  Pour batter into long, shallow loaf
  pan. Bake cake for 20 minutes, or until done.  Cool slightly before
  removing from pan.  Place cake on rack, top side down.  With sharp
  knife, cut off sharp corners of cake.  Stick almonds into cake ina
  staggered row design. Cover to prevent drying.
  
  Combine hot water, corn syrup and margarine in top of a double boiler.
  Bring mixture to a boil.  Continue to boil until margarine melts.
  Remove from heat; stir in chocolate chips.  Beat until sauce is
  combined. (or, heat Hot Fudge Sauce over a double boiler until it
  drips from a spoon.) Cool sauce to warm; spoon slowly over cake with
  almonds. (This process must be done slowly to allow the sauce time to
  adhere to the nuts and cake.) Allow sauce to set before serving.
 

 

 
      Title: Springtime Pudding Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    9" layers of sponge cake, us
           -ng your favorite reci
      2    3 oz boxes vanilla pudding
      1    3 oz box chocolate pudding
      1 ts Almond flavoring
    1/2 c  Pineapple; crushed, drained
    1/2 c  Pecans; chopped
    1/2 c  Maraschino cherries; choppe
           -
      3    Drops red food coloring
      2 c  Whipping cream, whipped
 
  Slice each cake layer in half to make 4 layers. Make puddings
  according to package directions, reducing milk by 1/2 cup for each
  package. Mix half vanilla pudding with almond flavoring, cherries and
  red food coloring. Mix half vanilla pudding with crushed pineapple.
  Mix chocolate pudding with nuts. Whip cream with 2 tbsp sugar and 1
  tsp vanilla. To assemble: Place cake layer on serving dish, cover top
  with cherry custard, place cake layer over this and spread with
  pineapple custard, place layer over this and spread with chocolate
  custard. Top with remaining cake layer. Cover top and sides with
  whipped cream. Chill overnight.
 

 

 
      Title: The Ultimate Chocolate Mousse Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      1 lb Bittersweet chocolate; coar
           -sely chopped
    1/2 lb Butter; unsalted
      6    Eggs; lightly beaten
           Chocolate ganache glaze
    2/3 c  Heavy cream
      6 oz Semi-sweet chocolate; finel
           -y chopped
 
  Fat grams    per serving:              Approx. Cook Time:   :15
  CHOCOLATE MOUSSE CAKE: 1. Preheat the oven to 425F. Wrap the outside
  of an 8-inch springform  pan in a double layer of aluminum foil to
  prevent seepage.
   Butter the pan and line the bottom with a round of parchment or waxed
  paper.  Butter the paper. 2. Combine the chocolate and butter in a
  large metal bowl over a pan of hot - not simmering - water (the
  bottom of the bowl should not touch the water). Let stand, stirring
  occasionally, until the chocolate is smooth and melted. Or melt in a
  glass bowl in a microwave oven on high (100%), stopping and stirring
  every 15 seconds; remove the chocolate when there are still a few
  lumps and stir until completely smooth. 3. Put the eggs in a large
  mixer bowl set over simmering water and stir constantly until warm to
  the touch, about 3 minutes; remove from the heat.  With an electric
  mixer, beat the eggs until they triple in volume and form soft peaks
  when the beater is lifted, 5 to 8 minutes. (To ensure maximum volume,
  if using a hand-held mixer, continue to beat the eggs over simmering
  water until they are hot to the touch, about 5 minutes, then remove
  from the heat and beat until cool.) 4. Fold half the eggs into the
  melted chocolate until partially incorporated. Add the remaining eggs
  and fold until they are just blended and no streaks remain. 5. Pour
  at once into the prepared springform pan and smooth the surface with
  a spatula. Place in a larger roasting pan and add enough hot water to
  the pan to reach about two-thirds of the way up the springform. 6.
  Bake for 5 minutes. Cover the top of the springform loosely with
  lightly buttered aluminum foil and bake for 10 minutes longer. Remove
  the cake from the oven and let cool on a rack for 45 minutes; then
  cover and refrigerate until chilled and very firm, about 3 hours. 7.
  To unmold, run a small spatula or a blunt knife around the edge and
  remove the side of the springform. Carefully invert the cake into a
  plate that has been covered with plastic wrap and remove the bottom
  of the springform; peel off the parchment. Reinvert the cake onto a
  cardboard round or a cake plate.  Cover and refrigerate for 6 hours
  or overnight, until thoroughly chilled, before serving. 8. If you
  want to cover the cake with a chocolate ganache glaze, set it on a
  rack or tuck strips of waxed paper around the bottom of the cake.
  Pour the tepid glaze onto the center of the cake, letting it cascade
  over the sides. Run a long metal spatula lightly across the top so
  that the glaze will not be too thick.  If necessary, use the spatula
  to patch any pare spots. Work quickly before the glaze sets. Prick
  any air bubbles with a needle or pin. Carefully remove any strips of
  waxed paper. Let the glaze stand undisturbed until set, 2 to 3 hours
  at room temperature, or 30 minutes in the refrigerator. CHOCOLATE
  GANACHE GLAZE: 1. In a small heavy saucepan, scald the cream.  Remove
  from the heat and immediately add the chopped chocolate. Cover and
  let stand for 5 minutes; then stir gently until the chocolate is
  fully melted and smooth. Let cool until tepid. 2. Stir the glaze to
  test it.  It is ready to use when a small amount mounds just a tiny
  bit when dropped from the spoon before disappearing into the mixture.
  If the glaze is too thick and the mound remainds on the surface, add
  warm water (or liqueur) by the teaspoonful, testing until the
  consistency is correct. If for some reason the glaze remains too
  thin, stir in more finely grated chocolate, heat until melted and
  then let cool again. Variations
  
  MINI-MOUSSE CAKE: This cake is perfect for serving 6 to 8. Make the
  Ultimate chocolate Mousse Cake, using 1/2 pound chocolate, 4 ounces of
  butter and 3 lightly beaten eggs. Bake in a 6-inch springform pan;
  temperature and baking remain the same. MOCHA FUDGE MOUSSE CAKE: Make
  the Ultimate Chocolate Mousse cake, prefereably using
  extra-bittersweet chocolate.  In step 2, add 2 tablespoons instant
  expresso powder to the melted chocolate and butter.  In step 5, pour
  halfe the chocolate mousse batter into the prepared springform pan
  and drizzle with have the Hot fudge (see recipe).  Add the remaining
  batter and drizzle on the remaining fudge. PRALINE CHOCOLATE MOUSSE
  CAKE: Make the Ultimate Chocolate Mousse Cake, preferably using
  extra-bittersweet chocolate. In Step 2, add 1/2 cup praline paste
  (see note) to the melted chocolate and butter. Garnish, if desired
  with toasted hazelnuts. (Toasted pecans are also nice). NOTE: Praline
  paste can be ordered from Maison Glass, 52 E. 58th St., New York, NY
  10022; 212 755-3316. CHOCOLATE FRUIT MOUSSE CAKE: Make the Ultimate
  Chocolate Mousse Cake, preferably using extra-bittersweet chocolate.
  In Step 2, add 3/4 cup raspberry jelly or melted and strained apricot
  jam to the melted chocolate and butter.
   Garnish the cake with a sparkling glaze of 1/2 cup melted raspberry
  jelly or strained appricot jam mixed with 1 Tablespoon framboise
  (raspberry eau-de-vie).  Spoon this glaze over the top of the cake
  and immediately spread into a thin, even layer with a long, narrow
  spatula. BRANDIED CHERRY CHOCOLATE MOUSSE CAKE: Make the Brandied
  Cherrys (see recipe) at least a day ahead.  Make the Ultimate
  Chocolate Mousse Cake (using semi-sweet chocolate). After Step 4,
  fold in 1 cup halved, well-drained brandied cherrys.
 

 

 
      Title: Toll House Layercake
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
      1 c  Butter, softened
      1 c  Brown sugar, firmly packed
    2/3 c  Sugar
      2 ts Vanilla
    1/2 ts Salt
      4    Eggs
      2 c  Flour, all-purpose
      1 pk Chocolate chips, "Little
           -Bits" semi-sweet,
           -divided 12oz pack

--------------------------FROSTING-------------------------------
    3/4 c  Butter, softened
  1 1/2 c  Sifted confectioners' sugar
      2 ts Vanilla
 
  Cake: Preheat oven to 350~F. Grease 15 1/2 x 10 1/2 x 1" baking pan.
  Line with waxed paper. In bowl, cream butter, brown sugar, sugar,
  vanilla and salt. Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each
  addition. Gradually add flour. Stir in 1 cup chocolate bits. Spread
  in prepared pan. bake 20-25 minutes. Cool completely. Loosen sides of
  cake. Invert onto floured cloth. Peel off waxed paper. Cut cake
  crosswise into 4 3-3/4x10" sections. Spread 3 slightly rounded
  tablespoons frosting on one layer. Top with second layer. Repeat
  layers. Frost with remaining frosting. Frosting: Melt over hot (not
  boiling) water, 1 cup semi-sweet chocolate bits, stir until smooth.
  Set aside. In bowl, cream butter and confectioners' sugar. Add melted
  chocolate and vanilla; blend until smooth. Makes 1-10" cake.
 

 

 
      Title: Traveling Gal's Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Dates; diced
      2    Eggs, beaten
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 c  Water; hot
      3 ts Water; hot
      2 c  Flour
      1 ts Cocoa
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  Butter or margarine
      1 c  Chocolate chips; 6 oz
    1/2 c  Nuts; chopped
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Place dates in small bowl. Sprinkle with
  baking soda; add hot water. Let stand 5 to 10 minutes to plump dates.
  In large mixing bowl, cream sugar and butter or margarine together.
  Add eggs. Beat well again. Sift flour, salt and cocoa together. Add
  dry ingredients to sugar-butter mixture in small amounts, alternating
  with date mixture. Add vanilla and mix well. Fold in 1/2 cup of
  chocolate chips. Pour into greased and floured 9 x 13 x 2" baking
  pan. Sprinkle remaining chocolate chips and chopped nuts over top.
  Bake 40 to 45 minutes or until toothpick inserted in center comes out
  clean.
 

 

 
      Title: Triple Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Desserts
      Yield: 16 servings
 
----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
  2 1/2 c  Cake flour
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 c  Butter
      3    Eggs
  1 1/3 c  Water
    1/3 c  Unsweetened cocoa
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla

--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      1    10/12 oz jar apricot preserv

-------------------CHOCOLATE BUTTER CREAM------------------------
    1/4 c  Butter, softened
    1/4 c  Sifted cocoa
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Sifted powdered sugar
    1/4 c  Milk

---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
      1 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Heavy cream
    1/2 c  Unsweetened cocoa
    1/4 c  Water
 
      Preheat oven to 350 degrees.  Grease and flour two 9" round cake
  pans.
      To prepare the cake, in a medium bowl, combine the flour, cocoa,
  baking soda and salt.  In a large bowl, with electric mixer on
  medium, beat butter and sugar until light and fluffy, about 10
  minutes.  Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition.
  Add vanilla.  With mixer on low, alternately beat in flour mixture
  and water.  Pour batter into pans.  Bake for 30 - 35 minutes until
  toothpick inserted in center comes out clean. Cool in pans for 10
  minutes.  Remove from pans: cool on rack.
  
      Using a sharp knife, split each layer in half horizontally.
  Spread 3 layers with the preserves.
  
      To prepare the butter cream filling, beat butter until light and
  fluffy Alternately beat in sugar, cocoa and milk.  Add vanilla.
  Spread 1/3 of the butter cream over each layer with apricot
  preserves.  Stack layers, ending with the plain layer.
  
      To prepare the glaze, in a small saucepan, mix sugar, cocoa, heavy
  cream and water.  Cook over low heat, stirring, until smooth.  Bring
  to a boil: Boil for 1 minute.  Cool slightly.
  
      Place cake on rack over wax paper.  Pour glaze over the cake,
  spread- ing to evenly coat.  Chill 30 minutes or until set.  Garnish
  with whipped cream piped around the top edge and spot the chopped
  pistashios around the top of the whipped cream.
  
  This is from one of my MIL's clippings from Women's Day.  Date unknown
  
  Shared by Robert Rostrup
 

 

 
      Title: Upside-Down Chocolate Cupcakes
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate
      Yield: 12 servings
 
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine, melted
    1/2 c  Brown sugar, firmly packed
      1 tb Water
     36    To 48 walnut halves
      1 c  Cake flour, sifted
    1/3 c  Cocoa
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1    Egg
    1/2 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Water
    1/3 c  Sweetened condensed milk
    1/2 c  Semisweet chocolate chips
      1 tb Butter
 
  Makes 12 cupcakes
  
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.  Well grease 12 muffin pan cups.
  
  In small saucepan, combine the 1/4 cup melted butter, brown sugar,
  and 1 Tbsp water.  Simmer 1 minute.  Place 3 or 4 walnut halves in
  each of the prepared muffin pan cups.  Spoon cooked mixture over
  walnuts.
  
  Sift flour, cocoa, soda, and salt together; set aside.  Cream 1/4 cup
  butter.  Graduallly add sugar and continue creaming until light and
  fluffy. Beat in egg and vanilla.  Blend in dry ingredients
  alternately with the 1/2 cup water, beginning and ending with dry
  ingredients.
  
  Fill muffin pan cups 1/2 full with batter.  Bake for 20 to 25 minutes,
  until surface springs back when gently touched with fingertip.
  Remove from muffin pan.  Let cool inverted on wire racks.
  
  In small saucepan, combine milk and chocolate.  Cook over very low
  flame, stirring constantly, until smooth and thickened, about 10
  minutes. Stir in 1 Tbsp butter; keep warm.  Spread on sides of
  cupcakes.
  
  From Whitman's Chocolate Cookbook ISBN 0-517-64157-7
 

 

 
      Title: Vegan Chocolate Sponge Cake
 Categories: Cakes, Desserts, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           Karen Mintzias
      2 c  Self-rising flour
           -(pref. 85% whole-wheat)
    1/4 c  Cocoa powder
      3 ts Baking powder
  1 1/3 c  Vanilla sugar
           -OR- Superfine sugar
      9 tb Sunflower oil
  1 1/2 c  Water
           Vegan margarine
           -for greasing

------------------------TO DECORATE-----------------------------
      1    Qty. Chocolate Fudge Icing
           -OR- Chocolate Buttercream
           Dark chocolate
           -coarsely grated
           Confectioners' sugar

-----------------VEGAN LEMON CAKE VARIATION----------------------
    1/2 c  -additional flour
      2 tb -Lemon juice
      1    -Lemon, rind grated
 
  Preheat the oven to 325 F.  Grease two 8- to 8-1/2-inch shallow cake
  pans and line the base of each with a circle of greased wax paper.
  
  Sift the flour, cocoa powder and baking powder into a bowl.  Add the
  sugar, oil and water.  Mix well to a batter-like consistency.  Pour
  the mixture into the prepared pans and bake for about 40 minutes,
  until the cakes spring back to a light touch in the center.
  
  Turn the cakes out onto a wire rack and strip off the wax paper.
  Allow to cool completely.
  
  Sandwich the cake together with half the fudge icing or chocolate
  buttercream and coat the top with the rest.  Sprinkle on a little
  grated chocolate and confectioners' sugar.
  
  Variation: VEGAN LEMON CAKE:
  
  Use the additional amount of flour and omit the cocoa powder.
  Replace 2 tb. of the water with lemon juice and add the grated lemon
  rind.  Sandwich the cakes together and coat the top with lemon
  buttercream or fudge icing and decorate the cake with yellow sugar
  decorations and leaves cut from angelica.
  
  Source: The Complete Vegetarian Cuisine - by Rose Elliot ISBN:
  0-394-57123-1 Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 

 

 
      Title: West Haven Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 lb Dates; cut in half
      1 c  Hot water
      1 ts Soda
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Shortening
    1/4 ts Salt
      2    Eggs; beaten
      1 ts Vanilla
  1 3/4 c  Flour
      1 ts Cocoa
    1/2 c  Pecans; whole
      1    Chocolate chips; small pack
           -ge
 
  Over dates, pour hot water with soda. Let cool. Cream sugar and
  shortening. Add dates and salt. Add eggs, vanilla and flour sifted
  with cocoa. Pour in 9 x 13" pan. Sprinkle pecans and chocolate chips
  over dough in pan. Bake 40 minutes in moderate (350 degree) oven.
  Serve with whipped cream or ice cream, if desired.
 

 

 
      Title: White Chocolate Mousse Cheesecake with Sun-Dried Cherries
 Categories: Cakes, Chocolate, Cheese
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      9 oz White chocolate
      3 ts Gelatin powder
      1 qt Soft whipping cream
      8 oz Sugar
      2 lb Cream cheese
      4 oz Caramel DeLites Cookies,
           -diced and crumbled
      4 oz Shortbread Cookies, diced
           -and crumbled
      4 oz Praline Royale Cookies,
           -diced and crumbled
      6 oz Sun-dried cherries
      1 oz Melted butter
 
  Melt chocolate. Dissolve gelatin with 1 ounce of water. Place cream
  cheese and sugar in mixing bowl. Use medium speed for 10 minutes.
  When mixture is soft and creamy add melted white chocolate and
  gelatin. Mix for two minutes. Add whipped cream and sundried cherries.
  
  To assemble: Grease a 10-inch mold with butter and cover sides with
  the Shortbread crumbles. Pour Caramel DeLite crumbles on bottom, then
  pour the cheesecake mixture over the first layer of cookies.. On top
  of that pour the Praline Royale mixture. Alternate the cheese and
  cookie layers.
  
  Makes 10 servings.
 

 

 
      Title: Wowie Cake
 Categories: Cakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 pk Yellow cake mix
      1 pk Vanilla instant pudding
      1 c  Sour cream
      4 x  Eggs
    1/2 c  Salad oil
      1 c  Chocolate chips
      1 c  Broken walnuts
 
  Mix together the cake mix, pudding, sour cream, eggs and oil. Using an
  electric mixer beat the batter for 8 to 10 minutes. Grease and flour
  a 10 inch tube pan. Pour 1/4 of the batter into pan and sprinkle 1/2
  the chocolate chip and walnuts over it. Pour in remaining batter and
  top with remaining chips and nuts. Bake at 350 degrees for 50 to 60
  minutes. Cool for about 10 minutes and then turn out onto a serving
  plate and cool completely.
  
  Joanne Ferry, Prodigy F&W Board
 

 

 
      Title: Almond Roca
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  (1 pound) butter
      2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Whole almonds
      1 lg Package chocolate chips
    1/2 c  Walnuts ground in a blender
 
  Melt butter over high heat.  Add sugar, stirring until it foams up
  well. Continue over high heat, adding almonds.  Continue to cook,
  stirring continually until mixture is color of mahogany and sugar is
  all melted. (Take it off the heat for a moment if it starts to smoke.)
  
  Stir as you take it off the heat permanently and pour quickly onto
  your biggest flat pan with sides.  Tilt to spread evenly.  After 5
  minutes, pour on chocolate chips. When they have melted a bit, spread
  them over the top of the hot mixture with a rubber scraper. Scatter
  ground walnuts over the top, shaking to distribute evenly.
  
  Candy is thoroughly cooled when the chocolate is dull looking. (Cool
  at least three hours at room temperature.) Break into pieces and it's
  ready to eat.
 

 

 
      Title: Almond Rocca
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Pecans, chopped (we use
           -chopped almonds on some
           -batches)
    3/4 c  Brown sugar (packed)
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine (butter
           -makes it richer)
    1/2 pk (6 oz size) semisweet
           -chocolate chips. (1/2 cup)
 
  Almond Rocca: This is not for Almond Roca, yet it is close enough and
  it is real easy. In fact my 14 year old daughter has been making it
  by herself at christmas for the past 4 years. Hope this will meet
  your needs. It comes from the Betty Crocker cookbook, so you may have
  it on hand already.
  
  Toffee: Butter square pan, 9x9x2 inches. Spread chopped nuts in pan.
  Heat sugar and butter to boiling, stirring constantly. Boil over
  medium heat, stirring constantly, 7 minutes (watch it real close the
  last minute or two).  Immediately spread mixture evenly over nuts in
  pan. Sprinkle chocolate pieces over hot mixture; place a baking sheet
  over pan so contained heat will melt chocolate.  Spread melted
  chocolate over canndy. While hot, cut into 1 1/2 inch squares.  chill
  until firm.
  
  Now for the changes we use.
  
  When we are going to be giving this as a gift, we melt another 1/2
  cup of chocolate in the microwave.  Use an 7x7x2 pan (or smaller than
  the 9x9x2). Spread the melted chocolate on top of the buttered pan
  that is covered with the nuts.  After the chocolate is spread on top,
  sprinkle more nuts on top, while chocolate is still warm. Then cut
  into small sizes. After the candy is set, remove from the pan and
  wrap individually with desert foil. I get mine at the bakery supply,
  or a craft shop.
 

 

 
      Title: Almond Splinters
 Categories: Candies, Gift
      Yield: 25 servings
 
      9 oz Milk chocolate, broken into
           Pieces
      6 oz Slivered almonds, toasted
 
  Melt chocolate in top of a double saucepan over simmering water. Stir
  until smooth or microwave on HIGH for 2 minutes. Combine almonds and
  chocolate, drop teaspoonfuls of mixture onto foil-covered trays.
  Allow to set in a cool place; store in airtight container in cool
  place.
  
  Makes about 25.
 

 

 
      Title: Almond-Coffee Walnuts
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    2/3 c  Almond paste, room
           -temperature
      2 tb Coffee liqueur
      1 ts Instant coffee powder (not
           -granules)
     72    Walnut halves
      8 oz Semisweet chocolate, melted
 
  1.   Mix the almond paste, coffee liqueur and coffee powder until
  smooth.
  
  2.   Spread 1/2 tsp of the mixture on the flat side of a walnut half
  and top with another walnut half, forming a sandwich. Rep,eat with the
  remaining almond paste and walnuts.
  
  3.   Line a large baking sheet with wax paper.  Dip one end of the
  walnut in the melted chocolate and set on the baking sheet.  Repeats
  with the remaining filled walnuts walnuts and chocolate.  Refrigerate
  until the chocolate is set, about 30 minutes.  Cover with plastic
  wrap and store in refrigeration.
 

 

 
      Title: Applesauce Fudgies
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      2    Squares unsweetened
           -chocolate
    1/2 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Sweetened applesauce
      2    Eggs, beaten
      1 c  Brown sugar, firmly packed
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Sifted flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Baking soda
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Choped walnuts
 
  Melt chcocolate and butter together. Mix applesauce, eggs, sugar and
  vanilla. Sift dry ingredients into applesauce mixture. Stir until
  blended; add chocolate and stir well. Pour into greased 9 inch square
  pan. Sprinkle with walnuts. Bake in 350F. oven for 30 minutes. Cut in
  2 inch squares; cool in pan on racks. Makes 16. ** from FARM
  JOURNAL'S COUNTRY COOKBOOK
  
  From one of the head kooks at Rhinoceros Kitchen
 

 

 
      Title: Apricot Almond Bark
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb White chocolate
      2 tb Solid vegetable shortening
    1/2 c  Whole toasted almonds
      1 c  Apricot Jelly Belly beans
 
  Line a 10x15-inch jelly roll pan with waxed paper. Melt chocolate and
  shortening in the top part of a double boiler. Stir in almonds and
  jelly beans. Spread into prepared pans. Chill 10 minutes. Score into
  2x3-inch bars with knife. When firm, cut bars apart.
  
  From: Steve Herrick Source: Best Recipes - March/April 1991
 

 

 
      Title: Barb's Ohio Buckeyes
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
      Yield: 2 servings
 
     12 oz Jar creamy peanut butter
    2/3 c  Softened margarine
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 lb Confectioner's sugar
      6 oz Package semi-sweet chocolate
           Chips
      6 oz Package milk chocolate chips
           -or, use 1 package chocolate
           -made for candy making
      3 tb Melted paraffin
 
  From: Bill Jernigan, COOKING echo
  
  Mix together.  Use hands to make into smooth 1 inch balls.  Chill.
  With toothpick, dip all but the very top of balls into melted warm
  mixture--
  
  Drop onto wax paper to harden.  Chill.
  
  no rice krispies in this one, but i don't see why you couldn't add
  them to stretch it a bit, or to cut the incredible bliss of peanut
  butter and chocolate (chortle)...
 

 

 
      Title: Bittersweet Chocolate Coated Truffles
 Categories: Ghirardelli, Candies, Christmas
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           Basic Truffle Recipe:
      4 oz Ghirardelli Bittersweet
           -Chocolate
      2 tb Butter, cut up
      2 tb Heavy whipping cream
  1 1/2 tb Liqueur (to 2 Tbsp)
           Chocolate Coating for
           -Truffles:
      4 oz Ghirardelli Bittersweet
           -Chocolate
      2 ts Peanut, almond, or walnut
           -oil
 
  DIRECTIONS: For Truffles: In double boiler, melt broken chocolate,
  stirring constantly. (Or microwave 2 1/2 to 3 minutes on medium.)
  Remove chocolate from heat; blend in butter. Stir in cream, then
  liqueur. Combine with chopped nuts or candied fruit if desired. Chill
  10-15 minutes, stirring frequently until thick enough to hold a
  shape. Drop by heaping teaspoon or #70 scoop onto foil lined baking
  pan. Shape round, if desires. Cover and freeze 20-30 minutes to set
  truffles firm for dipping with chocolate. For a variety of truffles,
  repeat the recipes using liqueurs such as Grand Marnier, Amaretto,
  Kahlua, Creme de Menthe.
  
  For Coating: Melt chocolate as directed in basic truffle recipe.
  Remove from heat and stir in oil. Cool chocolate to 85-90-F for
  dipping. Dip cold, firm truffle into melted chocolate, holding with a
  fork and spooning with several coats of chocolate. Place each onto
  foil lined baking pan. Decorate top with nuts, candied fruit, etc.
  Chill at least 2 hours to set chocolate. Roll in Ghirardelli Ground
  Chocolate, if desired. Place into tight container and store in cool,
  dry place to age for several days. Coats 12 truffles.
  
  Source: Recipes from Ghirardelli Chocolate Company of San Francisco
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 

 

 
      Title: Brazil Nut Bark
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     12 oz Semisweet chocolate pieces
      1 tb Butter
      1 c  Chopped Brazil nuts
    1/2 c  Seedless raisins
 
  DIRECTIONS: Melt chocolate and butter over hot water. Remove from
  heat, and stir in Brazil nuts and raisins. Spread on cookie sheet
  lined with waxed paper. Chill until firm. Break into pieces. Store in
  refrigerator.
  
  Source: Mom's old magazine clippings- 1940's to 1970's
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 

 

 
      Title: Butter Toffee
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  2 1/4 c  Sugar
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Water
  1 1/4 c  Butter (2 1/2 sticks)
  1 1/2 c  Chopped blanched almonds,
           -divided
      1 c  Finely chopped walnuts,
           -divided
      1 ts Rum extract
      4 oz Milk chocolate, broken into
           -pieces
 
  Butter a 15x10" jelly roll pan; set aside.  Combine sugar, salt,
  water and butter in a heavy 3-quart saucepan.  Heat to boiling on
  medium-high heat. Add 3/4 cup almonds and cook, stirring constantly,
  to hard crack stage (300-310 degrees).  Remove from heat.  Stir in
  remaining 3/4 cup almonds, 1/2 cup walnuts, and rum extract, mixing
  only enough to combine. Very quickly, pour into prepared pan.  Spread
  evenly.  Place chocolate on warm toffee until melted.  Spread
  chocolate evenly over toffee. Sprinkle with remaining 1/2 cup
  walnuts.  Cool; break into pieces.
  
  Makes:  50 pieces From: Jackie Olden Newsletter Posted by: Debbie
  Carlson - Cooking Echo
 

 

 
      Title: Butterfingers Candy
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Peanut butter
    1/3 c  Light corn syrup
      1 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Water
           Melted chocolate
 
  Cook corn syrup, sugar, & water to 310 degrees, remove from heat,
  stir in warmed peanut butter until completely blended. Pour onto
  greased cookie sheet and score into pieces. When cool and hard, dip
  into melted chocolate.
  
  Posted by Gina Smith DVWH18B
 

 

 
      Title: Candy- Peanut Butter, Easter Eggs
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           Pat Stockett
      2 lb Margarine
      4 lb Peanut butter
      4 lb Confectioners' sugar

------------------------EASTER EGGS-----------------------------
    1/4 lb Butter
      8 oz Cream cheese
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
  1 1/2 c  Peanut butter or coconut
      4 c  Confectioner's sugar

---------------------PEANUT BUTTER EGGS--------------------------
      1 c  Margarine
      8 oz Cream cheese
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
      2 lb Powdered sugar
  2 1/4 c  Peanut butter, chunky

---------------------RICE KRISPIE EGGS--------------------------
      1 c  Confectioners sugar
      1 c  Crunchy peanut butter
      2 c  Rice Krispies
      2 tb Oil
    1/4 ts Vanilla

--------------------PEANUT BUTTER BALLS-------------------------
      1 lb Margarine
      2 c  Peanut butter
  2 1/2 lb To 3 pounds confectioners'
           -sugar
      3 ts Vanilla
      6 oz Semi-sweet chocolate chips
    1/4 lb Paraffin wax
 
  Mix thoroughly.  Mold in egg shapes and chill in freezer.  Dip in 2
  pounds of dipping chocolate. (Take only a few eggs from freezer to
  dip so the peanut butter does not soften too much.)
  
  Easter Eggs Soften and mix together butter and cream cheese. Add:
  salt, vanilla, peanut butter or coconut and confectioners' sugar
  Place in refrigerator to chill.  Form into egg or ball shape. Dip in
  melted chocolate coating.
  
  Peanut Butter Eggs Cream margarine and cream cheese; add remaining
  ingredients and mix thoroughly. Roll into small eggs or balls. Place
  on cookie sheet on waxed paper and freeze about 2 hours. For
  chocolate, use chocolate chips and a small bar of parafin or
  chocolate coating melted on top of double boiler. After 2 hours
  remove peanut butter eggs from freezer and dip in melted chocolate.
  Place on wax paper to cool. Makes 12 dozen eggs.
  
  Rice Krispie Eggs Mix together and mold into eggs. Place on cookie
  sheet and freeze about 2 hours. Dip in chocolate coating to which a
  small amount of oil or butter may be added. Cool on waxed paper.
  
  Peanut Butter Balls or Eggs Cream margarine and peanut butter
  together. Add sugar and vanilla. Mix together and form desired shape.
  Place on cookie sheets lined with wax paper and place in the
  refrigerator for about 10 minutes. Melt chocolate and paraffin wax
  over low heat. (Use less wax, if preferred).  Put toothpick into
  balls and dip into chocolate. Put back on waxed paper and remove
  toothpick.  You can also use a spoon to dip them.
 

 

 
      Title: Caramel Turtles
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Pecan halves
     36    Caramels
    1/2 c  Sweet chocolate, melted
 
  Preheat oven to 325 degrees.  Grease a cookie sheet.  Arrange pecans,
  flat side down, in clusters of four.  Place one caramel on each
  cluster of pecans. Heat until caramels soften, about 4-8 minutes.
  remove from oven. Flatten caramel with buttered spatula.  Cool
  slightly.  remove from pan to wax paper. Swirl chocolate on top.
  
  Shared by Ellen Cleary
 

 

 
      Title: Caramels Au Chocolat (Chocolate Caramels)
 Categories: Chocolate, Candies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 c  Milk
     13 oz Powdered sugar
           Eggsize piece of glucose
  3 1/4 oz Chocolate in tablets
  1 1/2 oz Butter
    1/2    Vanilla bean
 
  Put milk, sugar, vanilla bean and glucose into a stewpan. Put the
  chocolate into a round-bottomed copper pan and melt it slowly on the
  stove. Meanwhile, heat the mixture in the stewpan, not letting it
  boil, since you merely want to melt the sugar and glucose. When
  completely melted, pour this mixture, bit by bit, into the chocolate,
  while stirring. When thoroughly mixed, cook at moderate heat,
  constantly stirring. Cook to the 'ball' stage. (To test the stage of
  cooking by finger, dip the thumb and index finger into cold water,
  then into the mixture, bringing the 2 fingers together and dipping
  them again into water. This should be done quickly to avoid burning.
  The mixture forms a ball that can be rolled with the tip of the
  fingers.) Remove from the fire, add the butter, mix well, and pour
  onto an oiled marble slab in an oiled, iron framework. Let cool and
  cut.
  
  Source   : The Art of French Cooking Posted by: Rina de Jong
 

 

 
      Title: Cathedral Windows
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      2 tb Margarine
      1 c  Chocolate chips
      1    Egg, beaten
      1 c  Powdered sugar
      3 c  Colored marshmallows
 
    Melt the margarine and chocolate chips in a saucepan over the
  lowest heat setting.  Remove from heat when melted.
  
  Add the egg and powdered sugar.  Mix well.
  
  Add marshmallows.  Stir until coated.
  
  Turn out onto wax paper and form a roll.  When hardened, slices into
  30 pieces approx. 1/2 inch in size.
  
  Freezes well.
  
  Enjoy! - Jeff Duke
 

 

 
      Title: Choco-Almond Confections
 Categories: Candies, Christmas, Entertain
      Yield: 3 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  Blue Diamond Chopped Natural
           -Almonds, toasted
      1 oz Squares milk chocolate
    1/2 c  Orange juice
    1/2 c  Granulated sugar
      3 c  Crushed lemon, orange, or
           -vanilla wafers
      2 tb Curacao or orange juice
 
  The positively elegant "very adult" confection is from Blue Diamond.
  
  In blender or food processor, finely grind 1/4 cup of the almonds; set
  aside. Combine chocolate with orange juice and sugar in saucepan.
  Cook over medium heat, stirring constantly until sugar is dissolved
  and chocolate is melted. Remove from heat and mix in crushed wafers,
  Curacao and the chopped almonds. Chill mixture at least one hour.
  Form into small balls; roll in the ground almonds. Refrigerate in
  air-tight container for several days for best flavor to develop.
  Makes about 3 dozen.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Peanut Butter Cups
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           CHOCOLATE CUPS:
      2 c  Milk Chocolate Chips
      2 tb Vegetable shortening
     24    1" paper candy cups
           PEANUT BUTTER FILLING:
    3/4 c  Creamy peanut butter
    3/4 c  Confectioners' sugar, sifted
      1 tb Butter, melted
 
  Combine over hot, not boiling, water, the milk chocolate chips and
  vegetable shortening.  Stir until the chips are melted and the
  mixture is smooth.  Remove from the heat but keep over the hot water.
  Coat the inside of the candy cups by using 1 t. of the chocolate
  mixture for each cup. Place the candy cups in the palm of your hand
  and rotate gently, using a narrow rubber spatula to push the
  chocolate up the sides of the cup. Chill.
  
  PEANUT BUTTER FILLING:
  
  In a small bowl, combine the peanut butter, confectioners' sugar and
  butter, mixing until well blended.  Using slightly rounded
  teaspoonfulls, shape the peanut butter filling into balls.  Place 1
  ball in each chilled cup and press lightly with your fingers to
  flatten. Spoon 1 level t. of the reserved chocolate mixture on top
  and smooth over to seal. Chill until form, about 45 minutes.  Store
  in airtight container in the refrigerator.
  
  Source:  Rich Harper, FidoNet Cooking Echo
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Liqueur Shells
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      3 oz Each of semi-sweet or
           -bittersweet, milk and white
           Chocolate, melted in
           -separate bowls

---------------------------MOUSSE--------------------------------
      3 oz White chocolate, chopped
      2    Eggs, separated
      1 tb Each of Tia Maria, creme de
           -menthe or:
           Cointreau food coloring if
           -desired
 
  With a spoon, smear melted chocolate evenly over inside of 12 paper
  cups. Turn cups upside down on a plate. Refrigerate until set. Gently
  peel off the paper.
  
  Mousse:
  
  Slowly melt white chocolate. Remove from heat; quickly beat in egg
  yolks. Set aside. In a separate bowl, beat egg whites until stiff,
  but not dry. Divide egg yolk min into three separate bowls and add 1
  teaspoon of a different liqueur to each bowl. Add a drop or two of
  green food coloring to bowl containing creme de menthe - if desired.
  A drop or two of yellow coloring can be added to Cointreau mixture.
  Gently fold a third of the egg whites into each of the bowls.
  
  Spoon into chocolate shells. Refrigerate 2 hours. These shells should
  be consumed within 24 hours. The chocolate cases can be made ahead of
  time and stored in a cool, dry place.
  
  Makes 12 candies.
  
  Source: Gifts From The Pantry By Annette Grimsdale
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Amaretto Truffles
 Categories: Ghirardelli, Candies
      Yield: 15 servings
 
      4 oz Ghirardelli Semi-Sweet
           -Chocolate
    1/4 c  Butter
      1 tb Amaretto liqueur
    1/2 c  Finely chopped nuts
 
  DIRECTIONS: Melt broken chocolate; remove from heat. Stir in
  Amaretto. Add butter, a tablespoon at a time, beating with a wire
  whip until smooth and creamy. Chill 5 to 10 minutes to firm mixture.
  Drop by teaspoon and roll into nuts. Keep truffles refrigerated until
  ready to serve.
  
  Source: Recipes from Ghirardelli Chocolate Company of San Francisco
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Bourbon Balls
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 3 servings
 
    1/2 c  Margaine or butter
      4 c  Powdered sugar
      1 c  Finely chopped nuts
    1/4 c  Bourbon
      1 pk (6 ounces) milk chocolate
           -chips
      3 tb Half-and-half.
 
  1.  Place margarine in medium bowl.  Microwave at HIGH (100%) until
  melted, 1 to 2 minutes.  Mix in sugar, nuts and bourbon.  Refrigerate
  until firm.
  
  2.  Shape into 1-inch balls.  Refrigerate until firm.  Combine
  chocolate chips and half-and-half in a small bowl. Microwave at
  MEDIUM-HIGH (70%) until chocolate chips are melted, 1 to 2-1/2
  minutes, stirring once or twice. Stir until smooth. Drizzle chocolate
  over candies. (Reheat chocolate as needed.) Chill.
  
  * The picture shows them sitting in little paper candy cups.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Mints (Karin Brewer)
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     12 oz Chocolate chips
     14 oz Can condensed milk
      1 ts Peppermint flavoring
 
  Melt chocolate and milk slowly over low heat.  Stir in peppermint.
  Drop by sm spoonfuls onto waxed paper.  Allow to dry and set for
  several hours or overnight.  Store in a covered container, but do not
  refrigerate.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Osg
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Sugar
      2 tb Cocoa; or 2 sq. chocolate
      2 tb Karo
    2/3 c  Milk
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 tb Butter
 
  Mix and boil to soft ball stage. Add chunk of butter and vanilla, let
  stand until cool. Beat until creamy, add nuts if desired. Pour into
  buttered plate and cut into squares.
  
  Source: Mrs. C. W. Houser, Jackson Grange, Hancock County, OH Mrs.
  Lillian Morehead, Monroe Grange, Clermont County, OH
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Balls with Cherry Centers
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     50    Whole candied cherries
    3/4 c  Cherry brandy (more may be
           -necessary)
    1/2 lb Sweet milk chocolate, broken
           -into pieces
    1/4 lb Unsweetened baking
           -chocolate, broken into
           -pieces
  1 1/3 c  Powdered sugar
    7/8 c  Butter, softened
      3 tb Unsweetened cocoa
           Powdered sugar
           Unsweetened cocoa
 
  Soak the cherries in the brandy overnight or longer.  Drain the
  cherries, reserve the brandy.
  
  Cream the butter and sugar in a mixer.  In a double boiler, melt the
  chocolates.  Spoon the melted chocolate, spoon by spoon, into the
  butter and sugar mixture and mix thoroughly by hand.
  
  Add reserved brandy to sugar and chocolate mixture and stir by hand
  until all is absorbed.  Add 3 T. cocoa and mix by hand.
  
  Put mixture in the freezer and thoroughly chill.  Prepare a surface to
  assemble the balls.  Mix equal amounts of cocoa and powdered sugar,
  about 1/3 cup each.  On a piece of waxed paper, heavily dust with the
  cocoa powdered sugar mixture.  Remove the chocolate from the freezer
  when it is chilled and stiff.  For each cherry, spoon out a heaping
  teaspoon of the chocolate and drop on dusted paper. Dip your fingers
  into the cocoa/sugar mixture and flatten chocolate to a small
  pancake. Place a cherry in the center and fold chocolate around it.
  Gently roll the ball between your palms to form and finish by rolling
  the ball in the cocoa/sugar mixture. Repeat for each cherry.  If the
  chocolate mixture softens, return to the freezer to firm up.
  
  Place the completed balls in a container with a lid and store in the
  frig.
  
  These balls are dense and heavy with a rich chocolate flavor.  For a
  lighter flavor, I suggest you omit the unsweetened baking chocolate
  and add 1/4 lb. more milk chocolate.
  
  Licking your fingers is not permitted during the assembly, but
  manditory after you are done.  (grin)
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Covered Candied Cherries
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     50    Whole candied cherries
    3/4 c  Cherry brandy
    1/2 lb Sweet milk chocolate, broken
           -into pieces
    1/4 lb Unsweetened baking
           -chocolate, broken into
           -pieces
  1 1/3 c  Powdered sugar
      3 tb Unsweetened cocoa
           Powdered sugar
           Unsweetened cocoa
 
  Soak the cherries in the brandy overnight or longer.  Drain cherries,
  reserve the brandy.
  
  Cream butter and sugar with a mixer.  In a double boiler, melt the
  chocolates. Spoon the melted chocolate, spoon by spoon, into the
  butter and sugar mixture and mix thoroughly by hand.
  
  Add reserved brandy to sugar and chocolate mixture and stir in my hand
  until all is absorbed.  Add 3 T. cocoa and mix by hand.
  
  Put mixture in a clean bowl and thoroughly chill in the freezer.
  Meanwhile, make a 50-50 mixture of powdered sugar and cocoa.  Begin
  with 1/3 c. EACH and mix thoroughly.  Heavily dust a sheet of waxed
  paper on a working surface.
  
  When the chocolate mixture is chilled and very stiff, remove from the
  freezer. Drop by teaspoonfuls on dusted working surface and dust your
  fingers in the sugar/cocoa mixture, press with fingers to make a
  small flat shape with the chocolate.  Drop a cherry in the center and
  form a ball around the cherry.
  
  Working quickly, complete the shape by rolling the ball between your
  palms.
  
  Roll ball in sugar/cocoa mixture to coat.  Continue working until the
  chocolate mixture is too soft to continue.  Return to freezer to
  chill some more and continue until all the chocolate and cherries are
  gone.
  
  The chocolate covered cherries can be stored in the frig.
  
  For a lighter, sweeter chocolate taste, increase the sweet chocolate
  and decrease or eliminate the unsweetened chocolate.  The more milk
  chocolate you use, the more diffucult it will be to work with as it
  melts rather rapidly.
  
  You can also substitute and equal portion of semi-sweet bits (toll
  house chocolates) for the chocolate.
  
  Other candied fruit and liquors can be used according to your taste.
  
  Enjoy!
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Marshmallow Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Christmas
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lg Can Evaporated milk
    1/4 lb Butter
      4 c  Sugar
      2 pk Chocolate pieces ( 6 Ozs ea)
    1/2    Jar marshmellow cream
 
  Combine first three ingredients in saucepan and cook to 234 deg.F or
  until it forms a soft ball in cold water. Stir often. Remove from
  heat and fold in remaining ingredients. If desired add chopped nuts.
  Pour into greased 8 X 13 inch pan. Refrigerate until firm. Cut into
  squares.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Scotch Truffles
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
      Yield: 40 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Good-quality unsweetened
           -chocolate
      2    Egg yolks
      1 c  Confectioner's sugar
    1/2 c  Heavy or whipping cream
      4 tb (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
    1/4 c  Scotch whiskey
     30    Whole shelled hazelnuts
      1 c  Sifted unsweetened cocoa
           -powder, for dusting
 
  1.  Preheat the oven to 375F.
  
  2.  Place 10 oz. of the chocolate in a heavy saucepan, and melt over
  low heat.  Remove the pan from the heat and set aside.
  
  3.  Combine the egg yolks and 1/2 cup of the confectioner's sugar in a
  large bowl, and cream until well blended.
  
  4.  Combine the cream, butter, and remaining 1/2 c. sugar in a
  medium-size saucepan and bring to a boil, stirring until the butter
  and sugar are thoroughly melted.
  
  5.  Slowly pour the hot sugar mixture over the egg yolk mixture,
  whisking constantly.  Mix thoroughly and set aside to cool slightly.
  Then stir in the melted chocolate and the Scotch; beat for 1 minute.
  
  6.  Place the mixture in the refrigerator and chill until firm, 30 to
  45 minutes.
  
  7.  Meanwhile, place the hazelnuts on a baking sheet and toast them
  in the oven for 15 minutes.  Remove them from the oven and rub
  handfuls of nuts in a kitchen towel to remove the skins.  Set them
  aside.
  
  8.  Roll a spoonful of the chilled chocolate around each hazelnut to
  form a truffle about 1 inch in diameter.  Set them on a baking sheet
  lined with waxed paper, and chill thoroughly in the refrigerator 2 to
  3 hours.
  
  9.  Melt the remaining 14 oz. chocolate in a heavy saucepan over low
  heat. Remove the pan from the heat.
  
  10.  Sprinkle a shallow dish generously with cocoa.  Dip each truffle
  in the melted chocolate, covering it completely.  Then lift it out
  with a fork and roll it in the cocoa.  Arrange the truffles on the
  baking sheet again, and chill before serving.
  
  Source:  "The New Basics Cookbook," Julee Rosso & Sheila Lukins
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Spiders
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     12 oz Package semi-sweet chocolate
           -chips
      1 c  Peanuts
  3 1/2 c  Chow mein noodles
 
  Melt chips in double-boiler, remove from heat, stir in peanuts and
  noodles.
  
  Drop on waxed paper. Keep in the refrigerator...way in the back so
  the kids won't find them and you can sneak bites after they have gone
  to bed. hehe
  
  Probably you should hide them behind the broccoli!!
  
  Sheryl
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Fruit Balls
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Gift
      Yield: 25 servings
 
    125 g  Dried apricots, chopped
    1/3 c  Raisins, chopped
    1/3 c  Sultanas, chopped
      2 ts Grated orange rind
     60 g  Dark chocolate, grated
    180 g  Dark chocolate, extra
     60 g  Butter
 
  Combine apricots, raisins, sultanas, rind and grated dark chocolate
  in a small bowl. Roll teaspoons of mixture into balls, refrigerate
  overnight.
  
  Break extra chocolate into pieces, place in top of a double saucepan
  with butter over simmering water. Stir until smooth or microwave on
  HIGH for 2 minutes. Dip each fruit ball in chocolate until evenly
  coated. Place balls on foil-covered trays; allow to set in a cool
  place. Store balls in airtight container in refrigerator.
  
  Makes about 25
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Popcorn Fudge
 Categories: Candies, 1941
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Sugar
      2    Squares unsweetened
           -chocolate
    1/4 c  Sweetened condensed milk
    3/4 c  Water
  1 1/2 c  Popped corn, chopped
      1 tb Butter or butter substitute
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/8 ts Salt
 
  Melt chocolate in saucepan.  Add sugar, milk, water, butter, and
  salt. Boil to soft ball stage (234 - 238 F).  Remove from fire. Add
  flavoring and popped corn.  Cool to room temperature. Stir until
  creamy. Pour into well-buttered, shallow pan.  Cut in squares. Grace
  Viall Gray, Glen Ellyn, IL.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Filled Eggs
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -Robbie Shelton XXXJ77A
      8 oz Dark Couverture Chocolate
      8 lg Eggs
      1 c  Heavy Cream
    1/2    Stick Butter
    1/2 c  Hazelnut Chocolate Spread
           -(Nutella)
 
  To prepare the eggs, allow them to warm to room temperatures, wash and
  shake each one well.  With a sharp knife, remove a small piece of sh
  ell from one end and puncture the other end of each egg with a
  needle. Remove the yolks and whites by blowing through the small
  hole.  Rinse the shells with water and allow to dry.  Place them,
  large hole up, in an empty egg carton.
  
  Cut the chocolate into small pieces.  Bring the heavy cream to the
  boiling point in a saucepan, add the chocolate and stir with a whisk
  until the chocolate is melted and well blended.  Remove from the heat
  and add the butter and hazelnut chocolate spread.  Whisk until
  blended.
  
  Using a small funnel, pour the filling, while still warm, into the egg
  shells and refrigerate.
  
  Serve the eggs in egg cups.
  
  This recipe is from Salt and Pepper Publications "Chocolate The French
  Way.."
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Candy Squares
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
      Yield: 24 servings
 
    1/2 c  Margarine (melted)
      2 c  Vanilla wafer crumbs
      1 c  Chopped walnuts
      6 oz Pkg. chocolate chips
  1 1/2 c  Flaked coconut
    2/3 c  Evaporated milk
      1 c  Brown sugar (firmly packed)
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Laurie Gill Pour melted butter in bottom
  of 13x9" baking pan. Sprinkle vanilla wafer crumbs evenly over butter.
  Sprinkle walnuts over crumbs, chocolate chips over walnuts and
  coconut over chocolate. Combine evaporated milk with brown sugar.
  Stir until smooth. Pour evenly over layers. Bake at 350 degrees for
  25 minutes. Cool for 1 hour. Cut into 1-1/2 ea squares.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Balls with Cherry Cordial Centers
 Categories: Candies, Martin
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     50    Whole candied cherries
    3/4 c  Cherry brandy (more may be
           -necessary)
    1/2 lb Sweet milk chocolate, broken
           -into pieces
    1/4 lb Unsweetened baking
           -chocolate, broken into
           -pieces
  1 1/3 c  Powdered sugar
    7/8 c  Butter, softened
      3 tb Unsweetened cocoa
    1/3 c  Powdered sugar
    1/3 c  Unsweetened cocoa
 
  Soak the cherries in the brandy overnight or longer.  Drain the
  cherries, reserve the brandy.
  
  Cream the butter and sugar in a mixer.  In a double boiler, melt the
  chocolates.  Spoon the melted chocolate, spoon by spoon, into the
  butter and sugar mixture and mix thoroughly by hand.
  
  Add reserved brandy to sugar and chocolate mixture and stir by hand
  until all is absorbed. Add 3 T. cocoa and mix by hand.
  
  Put mixture in the freezer and thoroughly chill.  Prepare a surface to
  assemble the balls.  Mix equal amounts of cocoa and powdered sugar,
  about 1/3 cup each. On a piece of waxed paper, heavily dust with the
  cocoa powdered sugar mixture. Remove the chocolate from the freezer
  when it is chilled and stiff. For each cherry, spoon out a heaping
  teaspoon of the chocolate and drop on dusted paper. Dip your fingers
  into the cocoa/sugar mixture and flatten chocolate to a small
  pancake. Place a cherry in the center and fold chocolate around it.
  Gently roll the ball between your palms to form and finish by rolling
  the ball in the cocoa/sugar mixture. Repeat for each cherry. If the
  chocolate mixture softens, return to the freezer to firm up.
  
  Place the completed balls in a container with a lid and store in the
  frig.
  
  These balls are dense and heavy with a rich chocolate flavor.  For a
  lighter flavor, I suggest you omit the unsweetened baking chocolate
  and add 1/4 lb. more milk chocolate.
  
  Licking your fingers is not permitted during the assembly, but
  manditory after you are done.  (grin)
  
  There's yet another variation to chocolate covered cherries.  It's
  for the brave & daring at heart.
  
  You have to start in the summertime, when cherries are ripe.  You
  take a pound of them, a pound of rock candy, and a fifth of good
  brandy or bourbon. Mix together, & let set in the back of the 'fridge
  for 3-4 months.
  
  When you finally get around to making the chocolate covered cherries,
  you use the preserved cherries for the centers, & the liquor as the
  base for the cordial. Courtesy of: Al Martin
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Toffee Candy
 Categories: Chocolate, Candies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Coarsely chopped pecans
    1/2 c  Butter
    3/4 c  Brown sugar, packed
    1/2 c  Semisweet chocolate pieces
 
  Sprinkle pecans in bottom of buttered 8 inch square baking pan.
  Combine butter and brown sugar in 2 quart heavy saucepan. Cook over
  medium heat, stirring constantly, until mixture comes to a boil.
  Continue cooking, stirring constantly, until mixture reaches hard
  crack stage (295F) on candy thermometer. Immediately pour hot mixture
  over pecans,spreading evenly. Sprinkle with chocolate pieces. Let
  stand 5 minutes. Spread melted chocolate evenly over all. When
  chocolate is set, break up into pieces. Makes about 3/4 of a pound.
  Origin: Farm Journal's Choice Chocolate Recipes Shared by: Sharon
  Stevens.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Butterscotch Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Christmas
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Sugar
     15 oz Sweetened condensed milk
    1/2 c  Water
      6 oz Semisweet chocolate pieces
      6 oz Butterscotch flavored pieces
    1/4 c  Butter or regular margarine
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Chopped walnuts
 
  An original recipe from a Georgia homemaker.  She combined three
  different fudge recipes and came up with this fast fix fudge that
  doesn't require refrigeration.
  
  Combine sugar, sweetened condensed milk, water, chocolate and
  butterscotch pieces in 3 quart heavy saucepan.  Cook over medium
  heat,stirring constantly, to soft ball stage (234F) Remove from heat.
  combine butter and vanilla in mixing bowl. Pour hot mixture into
  bowl. Beat with electric mixer at high speed until mixture starts to
  thicken. Stir in walnuts. Spread into greased 9 inch square baking
  pan. Cool and cut in 1-1/2 inch squares.  Makes 36 pieces. Origin:
  Farm Journal's Choice Chocolate Recipes Shared by: Sharon Stevens.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Peanut Butter Ribbon Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Peanut butter
      4 oz Plus 2 tb butter,
           Cut into tablespoons
  3 1/2 oz Marshmallow creme
      2 ts Vanilla extract
      2 c  Granulated sugar
      5 oz Evaporated milk
      2 tb Powdered sugar
     12 oz Semisweet chocolate chips
 
  Wait until you taste this--it's fabulous, easy, and makes a wonderful
  gift.
  
  1. In a small glass bowl, combine peanut butter and 2 tablespoons
  butter. Heat in a microwave oven on High 30 to 60 seconds, stirring
  once, until butter is melted and peanut butter is soft. Stir in
  powdered sugar until well blended; set aside.
  
  2. In a large bowl, combine chocolate chips, remaining 1 stick butter,
  marshmallow creme, and vanilla; set aside.
  
  3. In a large saucepan, combine granulated sugar and evaporated milk.
  Heat over low heat, stirring constantly, until mixture comes to a
  boil. Boil 6 minutes, stirring constantly. Pour over chocolate
  mixture in bowl and stir briskly until chocolate and butter melt and
  mixture is well blended.
  
  4. Turn half of chocolate mixture into a well-buttered 8-inch square
  pan. Carefully spoon reserved peanut butter mixture over chocolate
  layer, spreading evenly. Carefully place remaining chocolate mixture
  over peanut butter mixture and spread evenly. Refrigerate until set.
  Cut into 25 squares.
  
  Source: 365 Great Chocolate Desserts By Natalie Haughton
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Caramels
 Categories: Candies, 1941
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Brown sugar
    1/2 c  Butter or butter substitute
      2 c  Chopped nuts
      1 c  Corn sirup
      3    Squares unsweetened
           -chocolate
      1 c  Cream
    1/8 ts Salt
      1 tb Vanilla
 
  Cut chocolate in small pieces.  Add sugar, butter, salt, sirup, and
  cream. Cover and boil 5 minutes.  Uncover.  Boil slowly, stirring
  constantly, to firm ball stage (248 F).  Remove from fire. Add
  flavoring and stir until well blended.  Pour quickly over nuts which
  have been placed in well-buttered pan.  When cool cut in squares. The
  Household Searchlight
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Nougatines
 Categories: Candies, 1941
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  White corn sirup
    1/3 c  Strained honey
    1/4 c  Water
    1/4 ts Salt
      2    Egg whites
      1 c  Chopped nuts
    1/4 ts Vanilla
    1/2 lb Dipping chocolate
 
  Combine sugar, sirup, honey, and water.  Stir occasionally.  Boil to
  hard ball stage (265 - 270 F).  Add salt to eggs.  Beat until stiff.
  Gradually pour on half of the sirup, beating constantly with the egg
  beater or a spoon.  Boil remaining sirup to hard crack stage (285 -
  290 F). Pour gradually onto egg mixture, beating constantly. Place
  over fire on asbestos mat. Beat until thick. Add flavoring and nuts.
  Pour into well-buttered, shallow pans.  When cool cut in squares.
  Coat these with melted chocolate. Winifred McGovern, Waterville, MN.
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate Peanut Butter Cups Ala Weight Watchers
 Categories: Cyberealm, Candies
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Chunky peanut butter
      1 oz Semisweet chocolate chips
 
  1. In a small heatproof bowl, combine peanut butter and chocolate;
  place bowl in medium heatproof bowl and fill the medium bowl with
  boiling water. Let stand, stirring frequently until chocolate is
  melted and well-combined.
  
  2. Set 8 fluted paper candy liners on a serving platter; using a
  teaspoon, spoon 1/8 of the chocolate mixture into each liner. Cover
  platter with plastic wrap and refrigerate until candies are firm.
  
  Source:  Weight Watchers Quick and Easy Menu Cookbook Makes 4
  servings, 2 candies each
  
  Each serving provides: 1/2 protein, 60 optional calories
  
  Per serving:  84 calories
 

 

 
      Title: Chocolate-Dipped Strawmberries
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 pt Strawberries with stems on
           -(preferably a
           Long-stemmed variety),
           -washed and
           Patted dry
      4 oz Semisweet chocolate
      1 tb Cooking oil
 
  Spread strawberries on a working surface with wax-paper-covered tray
  nearby. You will also need one or two bamboo skewers or other picks.
  
  In the top of a double boiler over hot water, melt the chocolate with
  the cooking oil, stirring to mix thoroughly.  (The cooking oil will
  add a beautiful shine to the completed sweet.)  Place melted
  chocolate near working surface, but keep chocolate warm.
  
  One at a time, insert the skewer in the stem end of a strawberry and
  dip into the chocolate.  Lift out and shake any excess chocolate back
  into the pot.  Place the strawberry on the wax paper and continue
  with the remaining berries.  The strawberries should set for about 10
  minutes before being served.
  
  Chocolate-dipped strawberries can be refrigerated for up to 24 hours,
  during which time the chocolate will harden.
 

 

 
      Title: Coconut Almond Balls
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Microwave
      Yield: 26 servings
 
      4 c  (8 1/2-oz) shredded coconut
           -(fresh package!)
    1/4 c  Light corn syrup
      1 pk (11 1/2-oz) milk chocolate
           -pieces
    1/4 c  Vegetable shortening
     26    Whole natural almonds (1-oz)
 
  Tastes just like Almond Joy.
  
  Line two large cookie sheets with waxed paper. Set large wire cooling
  rack on paper; set aside.
  
  Place coconut in large bowl; set aside.
  
  Place corn syrup in a 1-cup glass measure. Microwave on high (100%) 1
  minute or until syrup boils. Immediately pour over coconut. Work warm
  syrup into coconut using the back of a wooden spoon until coconut is
  thoroughly coated. This takes a little time, and yes, there is enough
  syrup.
  
  Using 1 level measuring tablespoon of coconut, shape into a ball by
  squeezing coconut firmly in palm of one hand, then rolling between
  both palms. (HINT: Measure out all of the coconut then roll into
  balls.) Place 2 inches apart on wire racks. Let dry 10 minutes.
  Reroll coconut balls so there are no loose ends of coconut sticking
  up.
  
  Place milk chocolate and shortening in a 4-cup glass measure or 1 1/2
  quart microwave-safe bowl. Microwave on high 1 to 2 minutes or until
  mixture can be stirred smooth and is glossy; stirring once or twice.
  
  Working quickly, spoon 1 level measuring tablespoon of the chocolate
  over each coconut ball, making sure chocolate coats and letting
  excess chocolate drip down onto waxed paper. While chocolate coating
  is still soft, lightly press whole almond on top of each. Let stand
  to set or place in refrigerator. Store in a single layer in airtight
  container. Keeps best if refrigerated. Makes 26.
  
  From: Steve Herrick Source: [1,001 Home Ideas, Feb 1990]
 

 

 
      Title: Coconut Bon Bons
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     15 oz Sweetened condensed milk
    1/2 c  Butter, or margarine
      2 c  Confectioners' sugar
     12 oz Coconut, grated dried
     24 oz Semi-sweet chocolate
      4 tb Shortening
 
  Mix together condensed milk, butter, sugar and coconut. Cover with wax
  paper and chill for 24 hours.
  
  Melt chocolate with shortening.  Roll coconut mixture into balls and
  with fork dip into chocolate.  Drop on wax paper to cool and dry.
 

 

 
      Title: Cream-Cheese Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 oz Cream cheese, softened
      1 ts Heavy cream
      2 c  Confectioners' sugar
      2 oz Unsweetened chocolate,
           -melted
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
      1 ds Salt
      1 c  Chopped nuts
 
  Servings: 1 pound
  
  DIRECTIONS: Beat cream cheese and cream until smooth. Gradually beat
  in sugar. Add melted chocolate and blend. Stir in vanilla, salt, and
  chopped nuts. Press into buttered 8x4x2" pan and chill. Cut in
  squares.
  
  Source: Mom's old magazine clippings- 1940's to 1970's
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 

 

 
      Title: Cuban Lunch
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 75 servings
 
     12 oz Pkg pure chocolate wafers
     12 oz Pkg peanut butter chips
      7 oz Pkg crushed regular potato
           -chips
      1 c  Chopped peanuts
 
  This sweet treat is excellent for Christmas or large buffets -
  anytime you want to serve a special dessert nibble.
  
  Melt chocolate wafers and peanut butter chips.  Mix in peanuts and
  potato chips.  Spoon or pour into small paper baking cups.  Store in
  the refrigerator.  Makes 75.
  
  Origin:  Homestyles, Canadian Classics Shared by: Sharon Stevens
 

 

 
      Title: Dark Chocolate Walnut Bark
 Categories: Chocolate, Candies, Microwave
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Walnut pieces
      2    Bars (8-oz. each) dark
           -chocolate candy, chopped
      2 oz White chocolate
           -confectionary, chopped
           -(from a 3-oz.
           Bar)
 
  Line large cookie sheet with waxed paper. Spread walnuts out in a
  single layer, close together, on the waxed paper; set aside.
  
  Place dark chocolate in a 1 1/2-quart microwave-safe bowl. Microwave
  on medium (50%) 2 minutes; stir. Microwave on medium 30 seconds to 1
  minute longer, or until chocolate can be stirred smooth and is
  glossy, stirring twice. Immediately pour over walnuts, spreading out
  to a thin, even layer. Let stand until firm.
  
  Place white chocolate in a 1-quart microwave-safe bowl. Microwave on
  medium 1 1/2 to 2 1/2 minutes or until white chocolate can be stirred
  smooth, stirring twice. With the tip of a metal spoon or a pastry bag
  fitted with a small writing tip, drizzle white chocolate over dark in
  a zig-zag pattern. Let stand to set or refrigerate; break into
  pieces. Store in airtight container with waxed paper between layers
  in cool, dry place. Makes 1 1/4 pounds.
  
  From: Steve Herrick Source: [1,001 Home Ideas, Feb 1990]
 

 

 
      Title: Divinity and Variations
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
-----------------------BASIC DIVINITY----------------------------
    1/2 c  Light corn syrup
  2 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Water
      2    Egg whites
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      1 c  Coarsely chopped nuts

----------------------HOLIDAY DIVINITY---------------------------
    1/4 c  Chopped candied cherries
    1/4 c  Chopped candied pineapple

---------------------CHOCOLATE DIVINITY--------------------------
      6 oz Semisweet chocolate chips
      1 c  Nut halves (instead of
           -chopped nuts)

----------------------GINGER DIVINITY---------------------------
      6 tb Water \ Instead of the
      2 tb Preserved-ginger syrup / 1/2
           -cup water
    1/2 c  Finely diced ginger
 
  Servings: 1 1/2 pounds
  
  DIRECTIONS: In saucepan mix corn syrup, sugar, salt and water. Cook,
  stirring, until sugar is dissolved. Continue cooking, without
  stirring, until a small amount of mixture forms a firm ball when
  dropped in cold water (248-F). Beat egg whites until stiff, but not
  dry. Pour about half the syrup slowly over whites, beating
  constantly. Cook remainder until a small amount forms hard threads in
  cold water (272-F). Add slowly to first mixture, and beat until
  mixture holds its shape. Add vanilla and nuts; drop by
  dessert-spoonfuls onto waxed paper, or spread in buttered 9x9x2" pan,
  and when firm, cut in squares.
  
  HOLIDAY DIVINITY: Follow above instructions, adding candied cherries
  and pineapple with the nuts.
  
  CHOCOLATE DIVINITY: Follow above instructions, adding chocolate and
  nuts with vanilla after beating; then beat until well blended.
  
  GINGER DIVINITY: Follow above instructions, using the water and ginger
  syrup for the liquid. Add diced ginger with the nuts.
  
  Source: Mom's old magazine clippings- 1940's to 1970's
  
  From: Sallie Austin
 

 

 
      Title: Double Chocolate Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Microwave, Christmas
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 cn (14 oz.) sweetened condensed
           -milk
      2 c  (12 oz.) semisweet chocolate
           -chips
      1 oz Unsweetened chocolate
      1 ts Vanilla
  1 1/2 c  Chopped nuts
 
  1.  Butter baking pan, 8 x 8 x 2 inches.  Stir milk and chocolate
  chips in 2-quart casserole;  add chocolate.  Microwave uncovered on
  high (100%) 1 minute; stir.  Microwave until chocolate is melted and
  mixture can be stirred smooth, about 2 minutes longer.
  
  2.  Stir in vanilla and nuts.  Spread mixture evenly in pan.
  Refrigerate until firm.  Cut into 1-inch squares.
  
  From: Betty Crocker's Microwave Cookbook Shared By: Pat Stockett
 

 

 
      Title: Easter Eggs Candies
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 5 servings
 
           -Jo Ferry cmsj69b
      1 lb Confectioners sugar
      2 tb Water
      1 tb Light corn syrup
      1 tb Butter; softened
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Almond extract
      1 pn Cream of tartar
  1 1/3 c  Flaked coconut

---------------------CHOCOLATE COATING--------------------------
      8    Squares semi-sweet chocolate
 
  Combine sugar, water, corn syrup, butter and vanilla. Add the salt,
  almond extract and cream of tartar. This mixture will be crumbly. Add
  the coconut. Shape into eggs (whatever size you want). Melt the
  chocolate in a double boiler over low heat. Cool alittle and then
  frost the eggs.
 

 

 
      Title: Easy Creamy Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
      Yield: 32 servings
 
      2 c  Miniature marshmallows
           -(optional)
     14 oz Can condensed milk
      1 ds Salt
     12 oz Semi-sweet chocolate chips
      6 oz Milk chocolate chips or
           -semi-sweet chocolate chips
    1/2 c  To 1 c nuts
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
 
  In 2 qt. glass measure, combine marshmallows, milk, and salt.
  Microcook on HIGH 3-4 minutes.  Stir until marshmallows melt and
  mixture is smooth. Add chips and stir until melted.  (If you don't
  use marshmallows, melt chocolate chips in the condensed milk. Add
  salt.) Stir in nuts and vanilla.
  
  Line 8 or 9 inch square pan with wax paper.  Spread fudge evenly in
  pan. Chill 2 hours, until firm.  Turn on to cutting board, peel off
  paper and cut into squares.
  
  Serves 32
 

 

 
      Title: Easy Milk Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      2 tb Butter or margarine
    2/3 c  Evaporated milk, undiluted
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 c  Miniature marshmallows
  1 1/2 c  Semi-sweet chocolate morsels
      1 ts Vanilla extract
    1/2 c  Chopped pecans or walnuts
 
  Butter 8-inch square pan.  In medium saucepan, combine butter,
  evaporated milk, sugar and salt.  Bring to a boil over medium heat,
  stirring constantly.  Boil 4 to 5 minutes, stirring constantly;
  remove from heat. Stir in marshmallows, morsels, vanilla and nuts.
  Stir vigorously for 1 minute or until marshmallows melt completely.
  Pour into pan.  Cool and cut into squares.  Hint: For thicker fudge,
  use a 7X5-inch loaf pan.
 

 

 
      Title: Easy Toffee Bars
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     35    Soda crackers with unsalted
           -tops
      1 c  Butter or regular margarine
      1 c  Brown sugar, packed
      6 oz Semisweet chocolate pieces
 
  An absolutely fabulous candy!  Tastes and looks like butter crunch.
  And it all starts with a little soda cracker. Your friends will never
  guess the basic ingredient.
  
  Lightly grease 15x10x1 inch jelly roll pan.  Line bottom of pan
  evenly with soda crackers.  Combine butter and brown sugar in 2 quart
  heavy saucepan. Cook over medium heat, stirring constantly, until
  mixture comes to a boil. Continue cooking 3 more minutes, stirring
  constantly. Pour mixture evenly over crackers. Bake in 375F oven 15
  minutes. Remove from oven. Sprinkle with chocolate pieces. let stand
  5 minutes. Spread melted chocolate over crackers.  While still warm,
  cut between crackers making 35 squares. Chill in refrigerator until
  set. Makes 35 pieces. Origin: Farm Journal's Choice Chocolate Recipes
  Shared by: Sharon Stevens.
 

 

 
      Title: Elegant Chocolate Log
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Entertain
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  Sifted confectioners sugar
    1/4 c  Plus 1 tb sifted flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      5 tb Baking cocoa
      6    Eggs, separated
    1/4 ts Cream of tartar
  1 1/4 ts Vanilla
      1 tb Water
      1 c  Heavy cream
      2 tb Sugar
     12    Marshmallows, cut up
      1 oz Unsweetened chocolate,
           -melted and cooled
      2 c  Sifted confectioners sugar
           Light cream
    1/4 c  Chopped pecans
 
  Sift together 1-1/4 cup confectioners sugar, flour, salt and cocoa 3
  times. Set aside.  Beat egg whites with cream of tartar in bowl until
  stiff peaks form, using electric mixer at high speed.  Set aside.
  Beat egg yolks in another bowl until thick and lemon colored, using
  electric mixer at high speed. Beat in vanilaa and water. Blend in dry
  ingredients, beating well. Fold in beaten egg whites. Spread batter
  in greased and waxed paper lined 15x10x1 inch jelly roll pan. Bake in
  375 oven 15-20 minutes or until cake tests done. Meanwhile, lightly
  dust a clean dish towel with confectioners sugar. Loosen cake around
  edges with spatula and invert cake on towel. Lift off pan and
  carefully peel off paper. With a sharp knife, cut off crisp edges.
  Roll up cake gently, from narrow end, by folding edge of cake over
  and then tucking it in towel. Continue rolling cake, using towel as
  aid. Let cake cool in towel on rack. Whip heavy cream in bowl until
  thickened, using electric mixer at high speed. Add sugar, beating
  until soft peaks form. Fold in marshmallows. Unroll cake. Spread with
  cream mixture. Reroll (without towel)  Combine cooled chocolate and 2
  cups confectioners sugar in bolw.  Add enough light cream to make a
  frosting of spreading consistency. Spread over cake roll. Sprinkle
  with pecans. Refrigerate until serving time.  Makes 10 servings.
  Origin: Farm Journal's Choice Chocolate Recipes Shared by: Sharon
  Stevens
 

 

 
      Title: Fantasy Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Microwave, Christmas
      Yield: 3 servings
 
    3/4 c  (1-1/2 sticks) Parkway
           -Margarine
      3 c  Sugar
    2/3 c  Evaporated milk
      1 pk (12 oz) Baker's Semi-Sweet
           -Real Chocolate Chips
      1    Jar (7 ounces) Kraft
           -Marshmallow Creme
      1 c  Chopped nuts
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Microwave margarine in 4-quart microwave-safe bowl on HIGH (100%) 1
  minute or until melted. Add sugar and milk; mix well.
  
  Microwave on HIGH 5 minutes or until mixture begins to boil, stirring
  after 3 minutes. Mix well; scrape bowl. Continue microwaving on HIGH
  5 1/2 minutes; stir after 3 minutes.
  
  Stir in chips until melted. Add remaining ingredients; mix well. Pour
  into greased 9-inch square pan or 13x9-inch baking pan. Cool at room
  temperature; cut into squares. Makes 3 pounds.
  
  From: Kraft General Foods Holiday Homecoming (1991) Posted by: Sonya
  Whitaker
 

 

 
      Title: Five Pound Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Christmas
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  4 1/2 c  Sugar
     12 oz Can evaporated milk
    1/4 lb Butter
      1    Jar marshmallow creme
     12 oz Semi-sweet chocolate chips
     12 oz Milk chocolate bar
      2 c  Chopped pecans or walnuts
      2 ts Vanilla
 
  Cook sugar, milk, and butter to soft ball stage (234 degrees on candy
  thermometer), stirring constantly.  Take off the heat and add the
  remaining ingredients.  Stir quickly and thoroughly to blend.  Pour
  into a large baking pan or dish (I lightly butter it first).  Cool.
  Cut into squares and store in refrigerator.
  
  My favorite fudge recipe!!  I prefer it with walnuts instead of
  pecans and I even buy my milk chocolate candy bars with almonds
  sometimes for a little added flavor and crunch!
  
  From:  Jackie Olden's Newsletter
 

 

 
      Title: Foolproof Dark Chocolate Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Microwave, Christmas
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    (6 ounce) pkg. semi-sweet
           -chocolate chips (3 cups)
      1    (14-ounce) can Eagle Brand
           -sweetened condensed milk
      1 ds Salt
    1/2    To 1 cup chopped nuts
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla extract
 
  FROM:      Irene Wurz
  
  In heavy saucepan, over low heat, melt chips with Eagle Brand, and
  salt.
  
  Remove from heat; stir in nuts and vanilla.  Spread evenly into a wax
  paper lined  8 or 9" square pan.  Chill 2 hours or until firm.  Turn
  fudge onto cutting board and cut into squares.
  
  MICROWAVE instructions:
  
  In 1 quart glass measure, combine chips with Eagle brand and salt.
  
  Cook on 100% power (high) 3 minutes or until chips melt, stirring
  after each 1 1/2 minutes.
  
  Stir in remaining ingredients. Proceed as above.
 

 

 
      Title: Frango Mints
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     12 oz Chocolate
      1    Peppermint extract
    1/2 c  Margarine
  1 1/2 c  Powdered sugar
      2    Eggs
      2 ts Vanilla
 
  Melt and cool chocolate.  Cream together margarine, sugar, eggs and
  vanilla.  Add cooled chocolate and a few drops of mint to creamed
  mixture. Pack into 8 inch square pan.  Cool and set and cut in
  squares.
 

 

 
      Title: Frontier Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Entertain, Christmas
      Yield: 5 servings
 
           Jim Vorheis
    1/2 c  Butter
     12 oz Evaporated milk
      4 c  Sugar
     10 oz Large marshmallows
      2 oz Unsweetened chocolate,
           -chopped
     12 oz Semisweet chocolate chips
     12 oz Milk chocolate, chopped
      1 tb Vanilla
      2 c  Chopped walnuts or pecans
 
  Makes 5 pounds
  
  In 4-6 quart heavy metal pan, cook butter, evaporated milk, and sugar
  over medium-high heat until sugar is dissolved.  Heat to boiling.
  Turn heat to low, cover and continue boiling for 5 minutes without
  stirring. Turn heat to warm and stir in marshmallows until dissolved.
  Add each kind of chocolate in turn, stirring until melted. Stir in
  vanilla and nuts. Pour into lightly buttered 9x13-inch pan.  Let
  stand until firm, about 8-10 hours, before cutting.
  
  Creme de Colorado Cookbook (1987) From the collection of Jim Vorheis
 

 

 
      Title: Fudge a la Louise
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Christmas
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 c  Sugar
      3    Squares dark baking
           -chocolate
  1 1/3 c  Milk
      2 tb Butter, plus extra for
           -greasing platters
      1 c  Chopped nuts
  1 1/3 ts Vanilla
 
  In a heavy saucepan mix together the sugar, chocolate, and milk.
  Place the pan over high heat and stir constantly until the choclate
  is melted and the sugar is dissolved. Bring to a full boil, and lower
  the heat so the candy continues to boil gently, not vigorously. Stir
  no more. Put a candy thermometer into the center of the mixture and
  cook until the temperature reaches exactly 232 F. Meanwhile, butter a
  large platter (turkey size) and a flat pan about 11 by 13 inches.
  When the fudge reaches 232 F., pour it into the readied platter - do
  not scrape the pan, but let it drip out. Dot with 2 tablespoons
  butter and let the mixture cool until the platter feels cool
  underneath. Add vanilla. Take a large slotted spoon and start to stir
  the liquidy mixture - it will take about 15 or 20 minutes. You will
  see a steady change from dark to light color, from glossy to dull,
  from liquid to solid. When the fudge begins to get dull, add the nuts
  and mix in thoroughly. Put fudge into the large buttered pan and
  press into shape with the flat of your palms. Cut into squares; store
  in airtight container if there's any left.
  
  From: Steve Herrick Source: [Yankee Magazine - June 1981]
 

 

 
      Title: Grand Marnier Nanaimo Bars
 Categories: Canadian, Candies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Graham wafer crumbs
      1 c  Coconut, unsweetened, flaked
    1/2 c  Pecans; toasted, chopped
    2/3 c  Butter
    1/3 c  Cocoa powder; unsweetened
           -sifted
    1/4 c  Sugar, granulated
      1    Egg; beaten

--------------------GRAND MARNIER LAYER-------------------------
      2 c  Icing Sugar
    1/4 c  Butter; softened
    1/4 c  Grand Marnier;or orange
           -liqueur
      1 tb Orange rind; coarsely grated

---------------------CHOCOLATE TOPPING--------------------------
      1 tb Butter
      4 oz Semisweet chocolate; melted
 
  In bowl, stir together crumbs, coconut and pecans. In small saucepan,
  gently heat butter, cocoa and sugar until butter melts. Remove from
  heat; whisk in egg. Blend into crumb mixture. Press into greased 9
  inch square cake pan. Bake in 350F oven for 10 minutes. Let cool on
  rack.
  
  Grand Marnier Layer: In bowl, place half of icing sugar with butter,
  mix in half of the icing sugar with butter; mix in Grand Marnier,
  remaining icing sugar and orange rind. Spread over base.
  
  Chocolate Topping: Stir butter into chocolate until melted; spread
  evenly over Grand Marnier layer. Let cool for 20 minutes in
  refrigerator; cut into bars. (Bars can be covered, refrigerated up to
  2 weeks, or frozen up to 2 months. Let soften slightly before serving.
  
  VARIATION: CLASSIC NANAIMO BARS Make base and Chocolate Topping as
  above. In layer, substitute milk  for Grand Marnier; add 1/2 tsp
  vanilla. Substitute 2 tsp grated lemon rind for orange juice.
  
  SOURCE:_Canadian Living's Desserts_ by Elizabeth Baird posted by Anne
  MacLellan
 

 

 
      Title: Grandma Ruby's Fabulous Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 pk Chocolate chips
    1/2 lb Butter or margarine
     10 oz Miniature marshmallows (1
           -package)
      2 c  Chopped nuts
  4 1/2 c  Sugar
      1 lg Can evaporated milk
      1 tb Vanilla
 
  Combine chocolate chips, butter, marshmallows and nuts.  Blend sugar
  with evaporated milk and cook at a rolling boil for 6 minutes.
  Remove from heat and add vanilla.  Pour immediately into bowl with
  first four ingredients and stir until well-blended. Pour into
  buttered pans and let stand 24 hours in cool place. Makes five pounds.
  
  From the files of Grandma Ruby Williams
  
  Date help: Famous recipes for divinity, penoche, fudge, aplets and
  all the holiday favorites are collected together on our Christmas
  Nuts and Candies bulletin.  To obtain this four-page leaflet, send 3
  cents and a self-addressed envelope to Nancy Morris, Oregonian
  Hostess House, The Oregonian, 1320 S. W. Broadway, Portland 1, Or.
  
  So, when were 3 cent stamps used?  And does anyone know the relevance
  of "Portland 1"?  No zip code was given, either.  Part of a Green
  Trading Stamps ad is here, and bits of what seems to be a society
  section...this is really interesting!! At least to me....I hope I'm
  not the only one??
  
  Valerie Whittle
 

 

 
      Title: Hawaiian Bon Bons
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8 oz White chocolate, cut up
      1 c  Unsalted macadamia nuts
    1/2 c  Flaked coconut
      1 ts Grated orange zest
           -(optional)
 
  In a 1-quart glass bowl, heat white chocolate in a microwave oven on
  medium for 2 minutes; stir. Return to microwave and heat on medium 1
  1/2 to 2 minutes longer, or until melted and smooth when stirred.
  
  Stir in nuts, coconut, and orange zest. Carefully spoon into 25 (1 1/2
  inch) paper bon bon cups, filling to top. Let stand at room
  temperature, or refrigerate 1 hour or longer, until firm. Store, well
  wrapped, in refrigerator.
 

 

 
      Title: Heavenly Hash
 Categories: Candies, 1941
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Sugar
      1 tb Butter or butter substitute
    1/2 c  Blanched and roasted almonds
      2 tb Marshmallow cream
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Chopped pecans
      4 tb Grated unsweetened chocolate
     24    Marshmallows
      1 c  Cream
 
  Combine chocolate and sugar.  Add cream, and butter.  Boil to soft
  ball stage (234 - 238 F).  Remove from fire.  Add marshmallow cream,
  nuts, and flavoring.  Beat until mixture begins to thicken. Place
  marshmallows on well-buttered dish evenly. Pour mixture over them.
  Let cool, cut in squares with a sharp knife. Virginia Cooper, New
  Orleans, LA.
 

 

 
      Title: Honey Fudge
 Categories: Candies, 1941
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Sugar
      2    Squares unsweetened
           -chocolate
    2/3 c  Evaporated milk
    1/8 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 tb Butter or butter substitute
    1/4 c  Honey
 
  Dissolve sugar in milk and honey.  Add grated chocolate, butter, and
  salt. Stir until well blended.  Cover until boiling point is reached.
  Boil to soft ball stage (234 - 238 F).  Cool to room temperature. Add
  flavoring. Beat until mixture is thick, creamy, and will hold its
  shape when dropped from a teaspoon. The Household Searchlight
 

 

 
      Title: Indoor S'mores
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 48 servings
 
    2/3 c  Light corn syrup
      2 tb Butter or margarine
 11 1/2 oz Nestle milk chocolate
           -morsels
      1 ts Vanilla
     10 oz Golden Grahams cereal (about
           -8 cups)
      3 c  Miniature marshmallows
 
  Makes 48 squares
  
  *DIRECTIONS*
  
  Grease a 13x9x2" rectangular pan. Heat corn syrup, butter and
  chocolate morsels to boiling in 3-quart saucepan, stirring
  constantly; remove from heat. Stir in vanilla. Pour over cereal in
  large mixing bowl; toss quickly until completely coated with
  chocolate. Fold in marshmallows, 1 cup at a time. Press mixture
  evenly in pan with piece of waxed paper. Let stand until firm, at
  least 1 hour. Cut into 1-1/2 inch squares. Makes 48 squares.
  
  From Golden Grahams Cereal box
 

 

 
      Title: Irish Creme Fudge (Microwave)
 Categories: Candies, Christmas
      Yield: 36 servings
 
      1 sm Potato (about 5 ounces)
      3 tb Irish Creme liqueur
      2    Squares (2 oz) unsweetened
           -chocolate
      3 tb Margarine/butter
      1 lb Powdered sugar, unsifted
           -(about 3-1/4 cups)
     36    Walnut pieces
 
  Fudge gets texture from potato: potatoes cooked in the microwave oven
  give this fudge its unbelievably creamy, fudgey texture.  The mellow
  flavor comes from Irish Crem liqueur, used in both the fudge and the
  icing. Use a pastry bag to pipe the icing or a spoon to drizzle it
  onto the fudge. The added bonux is that this fudge is low in fat.
  
  Designer Icing (recipe follows)
  
  Line an 8x8x2-inch pan with foil. extending foil over the edges of
  the pan. Butter foil; set the pan aside.  Prick potato 2 or 3 times
  witha fork. Cook on 100% power (High) for 4-5 minute sor until
  tender, turning over once. Cool and peel.  Mash potato (you should
  have 1/3 cup).  Add liqueur, stir until smooth.  Set aside.
  
  In a 2-quart microwave-save casserole combine chocolate and margarine;
  cook, uncovered, on High for 1-2 minutes or until almost melted,
  stirring once.  Stir until smooth.
  
  Stir potato mixture into chocolate mixture.  Slowly stir in powdered
  sugar. Stir or knead until smooth.  Press into the foil-lined pan.
  Score into thirty-six 1-1/4-inch squares.  Press a walnut piece into
  each square. Cover and chill until firm.  Holding foil at edges,
  remove the fudge from the pan; cut into squares.  Drizzle Designer
  icing over fudge.
  
  ~=>Designer Icing In a small microwave-save bowl, cook 1 Tbsp
  margarine/butter on High for 45 seconds or until melted. Beat in 1/3
  cup sifted powdered sugar and enough Irish Creme liqueur (1-2 Tbsp)
  to ake an icing of piping or drizzling consistency.
  
  Makes 36 pieces.
  
  Per serving: 91 calories, .5 gm protein, 15.7 gm carbohydrate, 3.1 gm
  fat, 0 mg cholesterol, 15.7 mg sodium.  Calories from fat: 30 percent.
 

 

 
      Title: Jim Crows
 Categories: Candies, 1941
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Squares unsweetened
           -chocolate
      2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Cold water
    1/3 c  Corn sirup
      1 c  Chopped peanuts
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Grate chocolate.  Add water, sugar, and sirup.  Boil to soft ball
  stage (234 - 238 F).  Remove from fire.  Add peanuts and flavoring.
  Cool slightly.  Beat until mixture begins to crystalize. Drop by
  teaspoonfuls onto waxed paper. Mrs. Bertha E. Thorson, Osage, MI.
 

 

 
      Title: Krispie Crunch Candy
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Chunky peanut butter -18 oz
      3 c  Rice Krispies
      1    Stick soft oleo
      1 lb Posedered sugar
     12 oz Chocolate chips
    1/2    Cake of paraffin
 
  A. Blend peanut butter, oleo, and poseders sugar] B. Mix Rice
  Krispies eith (A) mixture.  Blend with hands to crumbles, then
  squeeze into 1 inch balls. Melt chocolate chips and cake paraffin in
  double boiler. Dip balls in chocoalte mix. Lay on waxed paper until
  dry.
  
  Bumgarner Family Recipes submitted by Donna Bumgarner Hurt
  
  posted by Bud Cloyd
 

 

 
      Title: Layered Mint Chocolate Candy
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     10    Squares semi-sweet chocolate
      1 cn Sweetened condensed milk,
           -divided
      2 ts Vanilla
      1 pk White chocolate squares
      1 tb Peppermint extract
      6 dr Green food coloring
 
  In heavy saucepan, over low heat, melt semisweet chocolate with 1 cup
  sweetened condensed milk. Remove from heat; stir in vanilla. Spread
  half the mixture into wax paper line 8 or 9 inch square pan. Chill 10
  minutes or until firm. Hold remaining chocolate mixture at room
  temperature. In heavy saucepan, over low heat, melt white chocolate
  with remaining sweetened condensed milk. Remove from heat; stir in
  peppermint extract and fool coloring.  Spread on chilled chocolate
  layer. Chill 10 minutes longer or until firm.  Spread reserved melted
  chocolate mixture on mint layer. Chill 2 hours or until firm.  Turn
  onto cutting board. Peel off paper and cut into squares.  Storre
  loosely covered at room temperature. Makes about 1-3/4 lbs.
  
  Origin: Canadian Living, December 1991. Shared by: Sharon Stevens