 Title: A Bag of Bean Tricks
 Categories: Beans, Soups, Text
   Servings:  6
      1    Text Only
  A bag of bean tricks to help you buy, soak, cook & store dry beans.
  Canned beans do not require additional cooking since they have been
  thoroughly cooked in the canning process, but there are several ways of
  preparing dry beans for cooking.  All start with a thorough inspection for
  damaged beans and foreign material, then washing in cold water.  The next
  step, which is highly recommended, is soaking the beans.  This not only
  helps make the beans cook faster, it also improves flavor, texture,
  appearance and digestibility.  For maximum improvement of these factors, it
  is recommended that the soak water be discarded and the beans rinsed and
  cooked in fresh water.
  SOAKING TIPS: Hot-soak (preferred) and Quick-soak method.
  For every pound of dry beans, any variety, add 10 cups of hot water.
  Remember beans will rehydrated to at least twice theri dry size, so be sure
  to start with a large enough pot.  (Note:  up to 2 teaspoons of salt per
  pound of beans *may* be added to help the beans absorb water more evenly.)
  Heat to boiling, let boil for 2 to 3 minutes.  Remove from heat, cover and
  set aside for at least 1 hour (quick-soak method), but *preferably* four
  hours or more.  The longer soaking time is recommended to allow a greater
  amount of the gas-causing properties to dissolve in the water, thus helping
  the beans to be more easily digested and lessening the aftereffects.
  Whether you soak the beans for an hour or several hours, remember to
  DISCARD THE SOAK WATER.
  COOKING TIPS: (for each pound of dry beans)
  Standard method:  Drain and rinse soaked beans; put into a good- sized
  kettle.  Add 6 cup of hot water, 1 to 2 Tablespoons shortening and 2
  teaspoons salt.  Boil gently with lid tilted until desired tenderness is
  reached.
  Savory Method:  Use standard method (above), but use 2 teaspoons onion salt
  and 1/4 teaspoon garlic salt instead of plain salt.  Add 1 Tablespoon
  chicken stock base or 3 to 4 bouillon cubes and 1/4 teaspoon white pepper.
  * Simmer beans slowly.  Cooking too fast can break skins.
  * Acid slows down cooking.  Add tomatoes, vinegar, etc. last.
  * Add 1/8 to 1/4 teaspoon baking soda (no more) per pound of beans when
  cooking in hard water to shorten cooking time.
  * At high altitudes, beans take longer to cook.  A pressure cooker helps,
  but follow manufacturer's directions.  [Personal note:  Tom says 1/2 hour
  in the pressure cooker at 15 lbs pressure is equivalent to cooking them
  overnight.  Don't put too many beans in the pressure cooker, as they
  expand:  you don't want to plug up the vent hole.)
  * Refried beans are made from freshly cooked pinto, pink, red or kidney
  beans, mashed and cooked in a skillet with bacon drippings, lard, oil,
  butter or margarine.
  [ California Dry Bean Advisory Board ] Posted by Shelley Rodgers. Courtesy
  of Fred Peters.
      Title: Acorn Squash Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
      4    Acorn squash
      3    Carrots, sliced
      1    Onion, sliced
    1/3 c  Water
      2 tb Butter
      1 tb All-purpose flour
      1 ts Salt
    1/2    To 1 tsp pepper
     29 oz Chicken broth
    1/2 c  Sherry
    1/2 ts Ground nutmeg
    1/8 ts Paprika
      1 ds Of ground allspice
      1 ds Of red pepper
      1 c  Half-and-half
  1 1/2 tb Sherry (optional)
  Kale leaves Paprika
  Cut squash in half lengthwise, and remove seeds.  Place squash, cut side
  down, in a broiler pan.  Add hot water to pan to a depth of 1 inch. Bake at
  350 F for 30 minutes.  Spoon pulp from squash to create a serving bowl,
  reserving pulp.
  Place carrots and onion in a saucepan; cover with water.  Bring to a boil;
  cover, reduce heat, and simmer for 15 minutes or until vegetables are
  tender.  Drain; combine vegetables with reserved pulp and 1/3 cup water in
  container of an electric blender or food processor.  Process for 30 seconds
  or until mixture is smooth.  Set aside.
  Melt butter in a large Dutch oven over low heat; add flour, salt and
  pepper, stirring until smooth.  Cook for 1 minute, stirring constantly.
  Gradually add pureed vegetable mixture, chicken broth, and next 5
  ingredients; bring to a boil.  Cover, reduce heat, and simmer for 1 hour,
  stirring occasionally.  Stir in half-and-half and, if desired, 1 1/2 Tbsp
  sherry.  Cook until heated.  If desired, serve in squash shells on a bed of
  kale.  Sprinkle with paprika.
  Yield:  8 servings
  Kaki Hockersmith Little Rock, Arkansas
  Source:  Southern Living, December 1991
  Posted by Kim Smith. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: African Tomato-Avocado-Buttermilk Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
      3 lb Tomatoes, peeled and seeded
      2 tb Tomato paste
      1 c  Buttermilk
      1 tb Olive oil
      1    Avocado, mashed to a puree
           Juice of 1 lemon
      2 tb Finely minced fresh parsley
           Salt and pepper to taste
           Hot pepper sauce
           Garnish:
      1    Cucumber, peeled, seeded,
           -and diced
  sour cream, plain yogurt, or creme fraiche
  Puree tomatoes in a food processor or food mill, then press through a sieve
  to remove seeds.  In a large mixing bowl, beat the pureed tomatoes, tomato
  paste, buttermilk, and oil.  Toss pureed avocado with 1 tablespoon lemon
  juice to hold the color. Add the avocado, remaining lemon juice, and
  parsley to the tomato mixture; stir to mix well.  Season to taste with salt
  and pepper, and a generous number of drops of hot pepper sauce. Refrigerate
  several hours before serving.
  At serving time, taste soup for seasonings.  Ladle into individual bowl and
  have guest garnish their portions with cucumber and sour cream.  Pass hot
  pepper sauce around to add more piquancy.
  Makes 8 to 10 servings.
  From:  CLASSIC COLD CUISINE by Karen Green, Jeremy P. Tarcher, Inc., Los
  Angeles.  1984.  ISBN 0-87477-322-9 Posted by: Karin Brewer, Cooking Echo,
  8/92
      Title: Aigo Bouido (Garlic Soup)
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  6
      1    Separated head or about 16
           -cloves whole, unpeeled
           -garlic
      2 qt Water
      1 ts Salt
      1 pn Of pepper
      2    Cloves
    1/4 ts Sage
    1/4 ts Thyme
    1/2    Bay leav
      4    Sprigs parsley
      3 tb Olive oil
  This isn't cream of garlic soup, but it has a creamy texture.  I've done
  this one and it's great.  As Julia says, "Because the garlic is boiled, its
  after-effects are at a minimum, and its flavor becomes exquisite, aromatic
  and almot undefinable."
  From Julia Child's "Mastering the Art of French Cooking, Vol. I":
  Drop garlic cloves in boiling water and boil for 30 seconds.  Drain, run
  cold water over them and peel.  Place the garlic and the rest of the
  ingredients in a 3-quart saucepan and boil slowly for 30 minutes. Correct
  seasoning.
  3 egg yolks 3 to 4 T. olive oil
  Beat the egg yolks with a wire whip in a soup tureen for a minute or until
  they are thick and sticky.  Drop by drop beat in the olive oil for making a
  mayonnaise.
  Rounds of hard-toasted French bread 1 cup of grated Swiss or Parmesan
  cheese
  Just before serving, beat a ladleful of hot soup into the egg mixture by
  droplets.  Gradually strain in the rest, beating and pressing the juice out
  of the garlic.  Serve immediately, accompanied by the bread and cheese.
  Posted by Al Martin. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Almond Dumplings (For Soup)
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      2    Eggs, separated
           Salt & pepper
    1/2 ts Chopped parsley
      6    Minced almonds
    1/2 ts Baking powder
  Flour
  Beat egg yolks very light. Add salt, pepper, parsley, almonds, baking
  powder, & enough flour to make a VERY stiff batter. Add beaten egg whites.
  Test a teaspoonful in boiling water - if it boils apart, add more flour.
  Drop from teaspoon into boiling soup 10 minutes before serving. This is
  from The Settlement Cookbook.
      Title: Annie Mae Jones' Corn Chowder
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  6
      2 tb Butter
    1/4 c  Onion,finely chopped
      8    Corn ears,freshly picked
      4 c  Milk
      1 c  Cream
      1 tb Flour
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Black pepper
----------------------SKILLET CORNMEAL CAKES---------------------------
      2 c  White cornmeal,stone-ground
      4 c  Water,boiling
      2    Eggs,well beaten
      1 ts Salt
      4 tb Butter
      1 tb Oil
    3/4 c  Cheese,sharp,grated
  Melt the butter in heavy soup pot and saute the chopped onion in it until
  just limp, then set aside while you cut the corn from the cob with a sharp
  knife onto a wooden chopping board. Add immediately to sauteed onion, add
  milk, and bring to almost but not quite boiling. Mix 1 tablespoon of the
  cream with the flour to form a soft paste and stir into corn-milk mixture,
  then add cream and bring to steamy hot but do not allow to boil. Season
  with salt and pepper and serve piping hot.
  Serve with:
  *** SYBIL CARTER'S SKILLET CORNMEAL CAKES ***
  Stir the cornmeal into the boiling water and cook over low heat until thick
  and creamy. Remove from heat, add beaten egg and salt, and mix well. Heat
  the butter and oil in a heavy skillet - cast iron is best - and drop
  cornmeal mixture by tablespoonfuls into hot fat. Cook 1-2 minutes, turn to
  brown opposite side, and remove to heated platter. Sprinkle with grated
  cheese while hot and serve at once.
      Title: Annie Mae Jones' Ham and Bean Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      1 c  White beans,dried
      2 qt Water,more if needed
      1    Bone from baked ham*
      1    Bay leaf
      3    Parsley sprigs
      1    Onion,large,mild**
           Salt
           Pepper
  * - leftover ham bone with plenty of leftover meat.
  ** - peeled & quartered.
  1. Cover the beans with water and soak overnight.
  2. Drain beans and place in soup pot, add water, ham bone, bay leaf,
  parsley, onion. Bring to a boil, then lower heat, partially cover, and let
  simmer very gently until the beans are tender. Add more water if needed.
  Remove and discard bay leaf. Remove ham bone, cut off all meat, and return
  it to the pot. Remove about 1 cup of the beans and a little bean liquid.
  Mash to a paste and stir this into the pot to thicken soup. Add salt and
  pepper to taste. If desired, thin soup with milk.
      Title: Apple Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
     16    Apples, cored and chopped
      5 c  Water
    1/2 tb Lemon peel, grated
      1    Inch cinnamon, wrapped in
           Cheese cloth
    1/4 c  Maple syrup
      1 tb Arrowroot
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 c  White wine
    1/2 c  Sour cream
  Simmer apples, water, lemon peel, cinnamon, and maple syrup until apples
  are tender, about 20 minutes; remove cinnamon. Puree soup in blender;
  return to sauce pan. Remove about a cup of liquid and combine it with
  arrowroot. When thickened, return to soup. Stir in lemon juice, and wine.
  Heat through. Serve with a spoonful of sour cream on each bowl.
      Title: Apple-Raisin Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  3
      2 c  Apple juice or cider
      2    Lg. cooking apples, peeled
           -and cubed (2 cups)
    1/4 c  Raisins
      2    Inches stick cinnamon
      1 tb Brown sugar
      1 tb Brandy
  In 2-quart saucepan combine first 4 ingredients. Cover, simmer 15 minutes
  or till apples are tender. Stir in sugar and brandy. Cover; chill. Remove
  stick cinnamon before serving. Makes 3 to 4 servings.
  Recipe from: Better Homes and Gardens, Soups & Stews Cookbook copyright
  1978 by Meredith Corporation, Des Moines, Iowa
      Title: Artichoke Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
     19 oz Artichoke Hearts Drained
  1 1/2 c  Chicken Broth
      1 tb Lemon Juice
    1/2 ts Salt
      1    Dash Of White Pepper
      1 c  18% Table Cream
      1    Thin Slices Of Lemon
  Puree artichokes and chicken broth.  Place in saucepan with lemon juice,
  salt and pepper.  Heat just to boiling.  Remove from heat and stir in
  cream.  Chill soup.  If hot is required, reheat, but to not boil. Garnish
  with lemon slices.  Typed by Syd Bigger.
      Title: Artichoke Bisque
 Categories: Soups, Beef
   Servings:  6
      8 tb Flour
     16 oz Butter
      6 c  Beef Stock
      2    Ribs Celery - finely chopped
      3 lg Onions - finely chopped
      1 bn Green Onions - finely
           -chopped
      2    Bay Leaves
    1/4 ts Thyme
      2    Clove Garlic - minced
      2 cn Artichoke Hearts - (2 14-oz.
           -cans) (UNDRAINED)
           Salt and black pepper - to
           -taste
    1/4 ts Tabasco
      1 c  White Wine - dry
      4 oz Light Cream
      2 tb Parsley - minced
  Melt the butter in a heavy pot and add the flour.  Over a low heat cook for
  5 minutes, stirring constantly.  Slowly add the stock and when well mixed,
  add the celery, onions, greeen onions, bay leaves, thyme and garlic. Let
  this simmer for 45 minutes.
  Chop the artichoke hearts fairly fine and then add to the pot along with
  the artichoke water.  Cook at a low simmer for another 30 minutes. Add salt
  and pepper to taste, the Tabasco, wine and cream and bring to a simmer. Do
  NOT boil.  The bisque is now ready to serve.
  Sprinkle a bit of parsley over the bisque in each plate.  With a slice of
  French bread, it's a Creole treat for your bon appetit.
  Recipe from Leon E.  Soniat in his "Creole Kitchen" column in the
  Times-Picayune.
  Posted by Michelle Bass. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Artichoke Soup
 Categories: Soups, Appetizers
   Servings:  4
      3 tb Butter
  1 1/2 tb Shallots or green onions -
           -minced
  1 1/2 tb Flour
  3 1/2 c  Chicken stock
      3 c  Artichoke bottoms or crowns
           -- drained (1 lb. cans)
      1 c  Half-and-half
           Salt and pepper to taste
  Melt butter in 6- to 7-inch skillet over medium heat, allowing it to brown
  slightly.  Add shallots and saute briefly.  Stir in flour and cook for 2 to
  3 minutes.  Heat chicken stock in 2-qt. saucepan.  Add flour mixture,
  stirring constantly.  Cook over medium heat until slightly thickened, about
  3 to 5 minutes.  Puree artichoke crowns in food processor or blender. Add
  thickened chicken stock and half-and-half and blend thoroughly, about 30
  seconds.  Season with salt and pepper.  Serve hot or cold.
  NOTE:  May be made ahead and refrigerated.  This one can be served hot or
  cold.  Also good for those who would fear fooling with fresh artichokes. If
  made with vegetable broth, could also be vegetarian.
  Serves 4 to 6.
  Posted by Michelle Bass. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Arugula, Potato, and Leek Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  6
  1 1/2 tb Safflower or other light
           -vegetable oil
      2 md Leeks, trimmed, cleaned
           -thoroughly, and chopped (1
           -1/2c)
      1 md Onion, sliced (1 c)
      1 ts Ground fennel seeds
  1 1/4 lb Potatoes, peeled and
           -coarsely cubed (3c)
      3 c  Chicken broth
  1 1/2 c  Water
  Servings: about 6 cups
  As watercress changes potato soup into something that doesn't taste quite
  like any of the individual ingredients, so arugula transforms this
  traditional soup base.
  Flexible, the soup can be pureed to a chunky or a smooth texture, and
  served hot, as a main dish, or chilled, as a first course.
  About 10 oz arugula, washed, trimmed, to yield 4 c packed Pepper and salt,
  as needed About 2 Tb Ricard or Pernod Yogurt, about 2 Tb per serving
  Garnish: 4 arugula leaves, finely slivered
  Heat oil in large pot.  Add leeks and onion; cook over moderately low heat,
  stirring often, until softened, about 10 minutes. Sprinkle with fennel and
  stir for 30 seconds.
  Add potatoes, broth, and water.  Simmer for 25 minutes, until soft. Add
  arugula and cook for about 10 minutes longer, or until stems are soft. Add
  salt, pepper and liquor to taste.
  Puree to rough or smooth texture, as you like.  Adjust seasoning. Serve hot
  or chilled, topped with yogurt and garnished with arugula slivers.
  From "Uncommon Fruits and Vegetables" by Elizabeth Schneider.
  Posted by Theresa Merkling. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Asparagus Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
    3/4 lb Asparagus, cut up or 1
           -10-ounce package frozen cut
           Asparagus
      1    Thin slice onion
    1/2 c  Boiling water
      1 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Light cream
  In covered saucepan cook asparagus and onion slice in water 8 to 10 minutes
  or till crisp-tender, do not drain. Cool slightly. In blender container or
  food processor combine the undrained asparagus and onion, milk, cream, 1/2
  teaspoon salt, and dash pepper. Cover and blend before serving.
  Makes 4 to 6 servings.
  Recipe from: Better Homes and Gardens, Soups & Stews Cookbook copyright
  1978 by Meredith Corporation, Des Moines, Iowa
      Title: Asparagus Vichyssoise
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  8
      2 lb Fresh Asparagus Spears
  3 1/4 c  Water Divided
      2 lg Potatoes (1 Lb.)
           Peeled & Diced
      2 ts Chicken Bouillon Granules
    3/4 c  Skim Milk
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts White Pepper
           Lemon Rind Strips (Opt.)
  Clean Asparagus & Cut Into 1 Inch Pieces.  Combine Asparagus & 1/4 C. Water
  in A 3 Quart Casserole.  Cover With Plastic Wrap, Turn Back One Corner To
  Vent & Microwave On High For 5 Min.  Let Stand 3  Min. Add Remaining 3 Cups
  Water, Potatoes & Bouillon Granules To Asparagus Mixture. Cover With
  Plastic & Vent.  Microwave At High For 10 Min., Stirring Once. Reduce Power
  To Medium & Microwave 15 To 18 Min. Let Mixture Cool Slightly. Pour About
  1/3 Of Mixture Into Processor & Process Until Smooth. Transfer Mixture To A
  Large Bowl.  Repeat Procedure With Remainingasparagus Mixture. Stir in
  Milk, Salt & Pepper.  Cover & Chill About 8 Hours. Stir Well Before
  Serving.  Garnish With Lemon Rind Strips. (Fat 0.5. Chol. 0.)
      Title: Asparagus Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      2 lb Asparagus, diagonally
           Sliced into 1" pieces
      3    Leeks, sliced
      4    Green onion, sliced thinly
      1    Red potato, chopped small
      3 tb Butter
      4 c  Water
      1    Vegetable, beef or chicken
           Bouillion cube
      1 c  Cream
      2 tb Tarragon
      2 tb Basil
      1    Clove garlic, pressed
      1 tb Soy sauce
  Saute vegetables in butter for 5 minutes.  Add water and bouillon cube;
  Simmer 5 minutes.  Add remaining ingredients and simmer 10 minutes more.
  Serve.
      Title: Asparagus Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  6
      1 cn Cream of asparagus soup
      1 cn Cheddar cheese soup
      1 c  Milk
      1 c  Water
      2 tb Butter or margarine
           Salt, black and red peppers
           -to taste
      1 cn Asparagus
  Heat soups, water, butter and seasonings slowly in a heavy pot.  Add
  asparagus.  Heat and stir occasionally.
  Makes 6 servings.
  Recipe by: Susan Quoyeser Found in: Talk About Good II
  Posted by Scott Ward. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Asparagus Soup
 Categories: Soups, Osg
   Servings:  1
           Asparagus
           Water
           Salt
      1 qt Milk; or part cream
      2 oz Butter
           Pepper
  Take asparagus, break into 1/2 inch pieces, boil until tender in salted
  water, add 1 qt good rich milk or part cream, add 2 ounces butter, season
  with pepper and it is ready to serve. This is delicious. Source: Margaret
  Bower, Greenford Grange, Mahoning County, OH
      Title: Austrian Homestyle Generic Vegetable Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  3
      4 tb Butter or margarine (or oil,
           -or lard)
      3 tb All purpose flour
  1 1/2 pt Water
  3 1/2 ts Knorr Beef Flavor Consomme
           -Mix (or similar bouillon
           Powder or cubes)
      2 tb Chopped onion
      1 md Carrot, diced
      2 c  (approx.) broccoli or
           -cauliflower, cut into small
           -pieces
      1 md Potato, peeled and diced
  Melt butter over medium heat.  Add flour, stirring constantly, until the
  mixture becomes puffy.  Add water, bouillon powder, onions, potatoes and
  carrots.  Bring to a boil, stirring occasionally.  Reduce heat and simmer
  until potatoes are almost done (about 5 to 6 minutes).  Add broccoli and
  return to boil.  Simmer for another minute.
  Makes 3 large servings (which with a chunk of French bread or the like
  would make a hearty meal, quantity-wise.)
  VARIATIONS:  For thinner soup, use less flour.  For vegetables with a more
  delicate flavor, use less bouillon powder.  If using sliced mushrooms,
  asparagus and frozen or fresh green peas as vegetables, use slightly less
  flour, slightly less bouillon powder, and a dash of sugar. (Start with the
  asparagus, adding peas and mushrooms when asparagus is almost done. No
  onion in that one, BTW, it would overwhelm the other flavors.) If all
  you've got is potatoes and onions, add quarter teaspoon caraway seeds early
  on (when you reduce to simmering).  What, not even potatoes? Throw in
  somewhat more chopped onion and add rice, and serve with fresh chopped
  parsley.
  Posted by Karin Brewer. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Autumn Rarebit Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables, Cheese
   Servings:  1
      5 c  Pumpkin; or squash, cooked
  2 1/2 c  Chicken stock
  1 1/2 c  Light beer
      2 tb Butter
      1    Onion;large, chopped
      3    Garlic cloves;crushed
      1 c  Cheddar cheese;old, shredded
    1/4 c  Pumpkin seeds
           -Salt and pepper
  Dotted throughout Canada are small inns that care passionately about the
  food they serve. This velvety fall soup offers a warm welcome to guests at
  the Orchid Trail Inn near Wiarton, Ontario.
    In large heavy saucepan, bring pumpkin and stock to a boil; reduce heat
  to medium, cover and simmer for 15 minutes or until tender. In a blender or
  food processor, puree in batches.
    In clean saucepan, combine pumpkin puree with beer; bring to boil over
  medium heat, stirring often. Reduce heat and simmer for 5 minutes.
    Meanwhile, in a small skillet, melt butter over medium low heat, cook
  onion and garlic; stirring, until softened, about 5 minutes. Add to pumpkin
  mixture; stir in cheese and simmer gently, partially covered, for 20
  minutes.
    Meanwhile in skillet over medium heat, cook pumpkin seeds, shaking pan
  often, for 7 to 10 minutes or until golden brown and toasted.
    Season soup with salt to taste. Garnish with pepper and pumpkin seeds.
  SERVES: 4-6 Source: ELIZABETH BAIRD posted by Anne MacLellan
      Title: Avacado Soup with Green Peppercorns
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      1 md Onion, diced
      1 tb Ground coriander
      1 tb Olive oil
      4 lg Ripe avacados, peeled,
           -pitted and coaresly chopped
    1/3 c  Green peppercorns in brine,
           -drained
           Salt to taste
           Pepper to taste
      2    Garlic cloves, minced
      1 ts Cumin
  2 1/2 qt Light chicken stock
           Cilantro leaves for garnish
  In large saucepan, cook the onion, garlic and spices in the olive oil over
  moderate heat for 10 minutes, stirring often. Add avacados and stock, bring
  to a boil, then reduce heat to medium. Cook 20 minutes. Cool to room
  temperature. Puree soup in blender until smooth. Return to pan, bring to a
  boil, add peppercorns, reduce to moderate heat and cook 10 minutes. Serve
  garnished with cilantro and peppercorns.
      Title: Avgolemono Soup - Lemon
 Categories: Soups, Rice
   Servings: 10
      2 c  Milk
      2 tb Cornstarch
      6    Egg Yolks, Beaten
      2 qt Basic Chicken Stock
    1/2 c  Long Grain Rice
    1/2    Stick Butter 1/8 lb.
      1    Chopped Parsley To Taste
      1 c  Fresh Lemon Juice
      1    Grated Lemon Peel (Optional)
      1    Salt And Pepper
  Stir the milk and cornstarch together and beat in the egg yolks. Set aside.
  Bring the stock to boil in a 4 qt. soup pot and add the rice. Cook,
  covered, until the rice is puffy and tender, about 25 min. Remove the soup
  from heat, add milk and egg mixture, stirring carefully. Continue to cook
  for a moment until all thickens. Remove from the heat again and add the
  butter, chopped parsley, and lemon juice.  You may wish to add some grated
  lemon peel as well.
      Title: Avocado Cilantro Soup
 Categories: Soups, Low-cal
   Servings:  4
      8 md Scallions
    1/2 c  Fresh Cilantro Leaves
      2    Cloves Garlic
      4 oz Pared Avocado
  1 1/2 c  Plain Nonfat Yogurt
    1/2 c  Skim Buttermilk
      2 tb Lime Juice
    1/2 ts Curry Powder
    1/8 ts Ground Red Pepper
  In a food processor, combine scallions, cilantro and garlic; process until
  finely chopped.  Add avocado; process until smooth.  Add yogurt,
  buttermilk. 1/4 cup water, lime juice, curry powder and red pepper to food
  processor; process until smooth.  Cover and refrigerate at least 1 hour,
  until well chilled.  Each 1/2 cup serving contains 115 calories, 5 gm fat,
  104 mg sodium and 3 mg cholesterol.
      Title: Avocado Gazpacho
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      1    Cucumber
           - peeled, seeded, chopped
      2    Garlic cloves; quartered
      2    Shallots; quartered
      1    Green bell pepper;
           - seeded, roughly chopped
      1 c  Torn lettuce
      1 tb Chopped fresh dill
      1 ts Chopped fresh dill
      1 tb Red wine vinegar
      1 c  Chicken stock
      1    Avocado
    1/2    Lemon (juice only)
      2 tb Vodka
           Salt
           Ground white pepper
  PLACE THE CUCUMBER, garlic, shallots, green pepper, lettuce, 1 tablespoon
  dill, vinegar and chicken stock (in that order) in the container of a
  blender or food processor. Blend until smooth. Cut the avocado in half
  lengthwise. Peel and remove the pit. Roughly chop half the avocado and add
  it to the mixture in the blender or processor. Blend until smooth. Transfer
  to a medium bowl. Finely chop the remaining avocado and sprinkle with the
  lemon juice. Stir this into the gazpacho; add the vodka, salt and white
  pepper to taste. Stir gently and chill thoroughly before serving. Garnish
  with remaining chopped dill.
  JOANNA PRUESS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
      Title: Avocado Gazpacho Soup
 Categories: Soups, Tex-mex
   Servings:  6
      2 lg Cucumbers
      3 c  Chicken broth
      1 ts Tabasco (or more to taste)
    1/4 c  Firmly packed cilantro
           Juice of one medium lime
      2    Ripe avocados
    1/2 ts Salt - or to taste
      6    Or 8 green onions including
           -green tops
  Serves 6
  garlic croutons cilantro sprigs
  Cut one cucumber into chunks and process with 2 cups of the broth,
  cilantro, lime juice, salt and Tabasco.  Pit, peel and chop avocados.
  Process with pureed mixture and add the third cup of broth.  Process
  briefly to coarsely puree the avocado, leaving some chunks.  Chill at least
  2 hours.
  Just before serving, dice the green onions, and peel, seed and chop the
  second cucumber.  Pour soup into bowls and garnish each with a few croutons
  and fresh cilantro sprigs.  Offer the minced onion and diced cucumber on
  the side to add individually.
  */\/\ichael* & Ms. /\/\ | /-\ /\/\ | *\/\/eslie*
      Title: Avocado Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  4
      2 lg Avocados
      2 c  Chicken Broth
           Salt & Pepper To Taste
      2 c  Whipping Cream
      2 tb Cognac
      2 tb Sherry
  Peel avocados and dice pulp.  Puree the pulp in a blender with chicken
  broth.  Season to taste with salt and pepper.  Gradually stir in whipping
  cream.  Chill.  Add cognac and sherry just before serving.
      Title: Avocado Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  6
      4 lg Ripe Avocados
      2 c  Chicken Consomme Or Broth
      1 c  Sour Cream
      1 c  Table Cream
           Onion Juice To Taste
           Ground Ginger
           Paprika
           Salt And Pepper To Taste
  Peel and dice the avocados.  Combine in a blender with the onion juice,
  consomme or broth, sour cream and table cream.  Blend until smooth. Season
  to taste with salt, pepper and ginger.  Store in covered, opaque container
  in refrigerator until chilled and ready to serve.  Top with additional sour
  cream if you like and sprinkle with paprika.  Plain yogurt can be
  substituted for the sour cream for a somewhat more healthful dish. Be sure
  to pour off any excess water in the yogurt before adding to other
  ingredients.
      Title: Avocado Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables, Southwest
   Servings:  4
      3 c  Chicken Broth
      1 c  Half-and-Half
      2 lg Avocados, Cut Up
      1    Clove garlic, Crushed
      1 tb Chopped Onion
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Snipped Cilantro
      1 ds Pepper
  Place 1-1/2 cups of the chicken broth and the remaining ingredients in
  blender container.  Cover and blend on medium speed until smooth.  Stir
  remaining broth into avocado mixture.  Cover and refrigerate until chilled,
  about 2 hours.  Garnish with sourcream and paprika or avocado slices if
  desired.  Typed by Syd Bigger.
      Title: Avocado Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      2 md Sized avocados, peeled and
           -cut into slices
      3 c  Chicken broth
    1/2 c  Light cream or half-and-half
    1/2 c  Sour cream
           Grated rind and juice of one
           -lemon
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Fresh dill weed
  Place all ingredients in the blender and blend until smooth. Chill in the
  refrigerator for four hours. Replace the avocado pit in the soup while it
  is chilling to prevent it from darkening, and cover with transparent wrap.
  Garnish with fresh dill just before serving.
  From: Steve Herrick Source: [Soups - by Irena Chalmers]
      Title: Avocado Soup with Radishes & Cilantro Cream
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  1
      2 tb Avocado oil
      1 tb Walnut Oil or 3 T. Fruity
           Olive Oil
      1 md Yellow Onion, chopped
      4    Cloves Garlic, peeled and
           Minced
      1    Piece of Ginger,1 1/2 inches
           Long, peeled and minced
      3    Serrano or jalapeno chili
           Peppers, stemmed, seeded and
           Minced
      4 c  Chicken stock
      3    Ripe Avocados, preferably
           The Haas variety
      2    Limes
    1/2 c  Sour cream
      2 tb Half-and-half
    1/4 c  Cilantro leaves, very finely
           Minced
      1 ts Ground Coriander
           Salt
      1 bn Radishes, 10-12
           Black pepper
   Heat the Avocado oil or two tablespoons of the olive oil in a saucepan and
  add chopped onion. Saute for 5 minutes and add garlic, ginger and 2 of the
  peppers. Saute for another 5 minutes. Add the stock, simmer for 10 minutes
  and remove from heat.
   While the stock and vegetables are simmering, cut the Avocados in half and
  seed and peel them. Chop the Avocados, toss them with the juice of 1 lime
  and place about half the Avocado in a blender container. Add hot stock and
  vegetables until container is about 3/4 full and process until the mixture
  is smooth and liquid. Chill the soup thoroughly, preferably for several
  hours.
   To make the cilantro cream, stir the sour cream and half-and-half
  together, add the chopped cilantro, the remaining chili pepper, the ground
  coriander and salt to taste. Chill until you are ready to use it.
   Cut the radishes in small julienne and toss with the walnut oil or the
  remaining olive oil, the juice of 1/2 lime and salt to taste. Chill until
  you are ready to use them.
   Taste the chilled soup and add salt and more lime juice to taste. Ladle it
  into chilled soup bowls. Top each serving with a tablespoon of cilantro
  cream and a tablespoon of julienned radishes.
  Variation This soup is also delicious when served hot and is an ideal
  opening to a hearty Mexican meal.
  From: The Good Cook's Book of Oil & Vinegar by Michele Anna Jordan
  Posted By: Charles Walstrom 2/93
      Title: Avocado Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      3 lg Ripe avocados
  1 3/4 c  Heavy cream
      6 c  Chicken broth
           Salt and white pepper to
           -taste
  1 1/2 ts Lemon juice
  Peel, seed and cut avocados in cubes.  Place in blender container with 1/2
  cup chicken broth.  Blend until smooth, stopping once or twice to push the
  avocado cubes down against the blades.  Mix in the remaining broth and
  lemon juice and stir.  Pour into a glass or enamel pot and bring to a boil.
  Lower the flame immediately and simmer over very low heat for 4 minutes.
  Stir in cream, salt and pepper and reheat.  Serve immediately.
  Posted by Pat Stockett. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Bacon and Bean Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
      3 sl Back bacon
      3    Stalks celery, chopped
      2 md Carrots, chopped
      1 md Onion, chopped
      1 c  Chopped turnip
      3 c  Beef broth
      1    Bay leaf
    1/2 ts Thyme
      1 cn (19oz) kidney OR pinto
           -beans, drained and rinsed
  Prep time: 25 minutes.
  When the vegetables are finely chopped it takes only a short simmering time
  to develop and blend the flavors of the bacon and assorted winter
  vegetables. The beans add character and a heartiness that is satisfying.
  And an added plus - the soup is better a day or two after it is made. Store
  it in a covered container in the refrigerator.
  Cut bacon into thin slivers.  In a 12 cup saucepan, combine bacon,celery,
  carrots, onion, turnip, beef broth, bay leaf and thyme.  Bring to a boil;
  reduce heat, cover and simmer for 15 minutes or until vegetables are
  tender. Add beans and continue to simmer 5-10  minutes or until hot, and
  flavors are blended.  Remove the bay leaf and ladle into warm soup tureen
  or soup bowls. Makes 8 servings.
  Origin: Light & Easy Choices Shared by: Sharon Stevens.
      Title: Bacon, Cabbage and Pasta Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      4    Slices bacon, cut up
      2 c  Coarsely shredded cabbage
      2    (14-1/2 oz.) cans beef
           Broth
      1    (16 oz.) pkg. Green Giant
           Frozen Pasta & Vegetables
           Accent Garden Herb
           Seasoning
  Cook bacon in large saucepan until crisp; remove bacon and drain on paper
  towels. Crumble bacon. Cook cabbage in broth until crisp tender. Stir
  bacon, broth, frozen vegetables and pasta, and water into cabbage. Bring to
  a boil; stir. Reduce heat; cover and simmer 6 to 8 minutes or until
  vegetables are tender. From: Pillsbury, Pasta, Rice & Beans Shared By: Pat
  Stockett
      Title: Bajan Black Bean Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
  2 1/2 c  Dried black beans, soaked
           -overnight
      1 lg Or 2 small ham hocks
      3    To 3.5 quarts water
      3 tb Olive oil
      2    To 3 large onions
      4    Cloves garlic
      3 sm Fresh green peppers
           -(jalapeanos if preferred)
      8    Berries allspice coarsely
           -crushed
      2 ts Brown sugar (or 1 t of
           -molasses)
      3 tb Tomato paste
    3/4 c  Creme fraiche or sour cream
  Salt Grated rind and juice from one lemon
  Put the drained beans and hock in a very large pan, cover with the cold
  water and bring gradually to a boil.  Leave to simmer while you prepare the
  other ingredients.
  In a frying pan heat the olive oil, then gently fry the onion, garlic and
  chili with the allspice and lemon rind, stirring occasionally, until the
  onions are translucent.  Add this mixture to the beans and go on simmering
  for 2 hours, by which time the beans should be tender.  At this point add
  the sugar, lemon juice, and tomato puree.  Cook for another 30 minutes. Add
  salt if necessary.
  Remove the hock, and pick off any meat.  If you would like a smooth soup,
  as mine (the author) was, process the mixture in batches and return with
  the meat to the pan.  Otherwise, for a rougher texture crush with a potato
  masher.  If the mixture seems too thick at this stage, add more water and
  bring back to the boil for a minute or two.
  Ladle the soup into bowls, with a spoonful or two of cream stirred in, and
  serve with a crusty bread.
  If you are feeling lavish, a couple of spoons of dark rum added towards the
  end give a Bajan fillip.
  INFO TEXT: Arriving stiff and crumpled inside and out after an eleven hour
  flight, this was my first taste of Bajan Cooking, and I ate it late at
  night trying to imagine the sea beyond a dark frieze of langourous palms.
  Dense but smooth, with a snap of chili, the soup was both homely and
  exotic, and very restoring.
  Barbados produces splendid ham and bacon, and a ham stock is what makes
  this different from other Carribean variants.  Or, as here, use a hock,
  soaked first to remove some salt.
  From a book called FOOD MAGIC by Jocasta Innes.
  Posted by Troy Wade. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Baked Bean Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables, Vegetarian
   Servings:  2
      2 tb Olive Oil
      1    Onion, Chopped
      5 ts Chili Powder
  1 1/2 ts Dry Mustard
      2 c  Water
      2 cn Cannellini (White Kidney
           Beans, (15-oz. Cans),
           Rinsed, Drained
      1 cn Stewed Tomatoes, With Juice
           (14-1/2 Oz. Can)
      3 tb Unsulfured (Light) Molasses
  Heat oil in heavy large saucepan over medium heat.  Add onion and cook
  until soft, about 8 minutes.  Add chili powder and mustard and stir 1
  minute.  Add water, beans, tomatoes with their juices and molasses. Simmer
  soup 15 minutes, stirring occasionally and breaking up large chunks of
  tomatoes with back of spoon.  Season with salt and pepper.  Makes 2
  generous servings; can be doubled If you prefer a thicker soup, remove one
  cup of the beans, mash them to a paste, then stir them back into the soup.
  Coleslaw and corn bread squares round out the menu; a simple baked apple
  could be the perfect finale. Recipe from Bon Appetit, March, 1993 -
  "30-Minute Main Courses" Source: Bon Appetit - March, 1993
      Title: Baked Fish Chowder
 Categories: Fish, Soups
   Servings:  6
    350    F.
  Butter a deep baking dish.  Peel and thinly slice three medium potatoes and
  two onions.  In bottom of dish, put half the potatoes and onions.  Salt and
  pepper and dot generously with butter.  Cover with a thick layer of fish
  fillet (or flaked, canned salmon).  Season and again butter generously.
  Layer with remainder of potatoes and onions and season again.  Pour in
  enough milk to reach top layer.  Sprinkle with paprika and bake one hour at
      Title: Barb's Best Gazpacho
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      2    Garlic cloves, chopped
      5    Juicy medium tomatoes
      5    Roma tomatoes, ripe
      2 md Cucumbers, English, peeled,
           -cut in 1-in pieces
      1 lg Spanish or red onion
      1 lg Green bell pepper, cored,
           -seeded and ribbed
      1 lg Red bell pepper, cored,
           -seeded and deribbed
      2 c  Tomato juice, or vegetable
           -juice cocktail
    1/4 c  Olive oil, extra virgin
    1/4 c  Red wine vinegar
    1/2 c  Vodka or vermouth (OPTIONAL)
      2 tb Lime juice, fresh
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      2    Glubs Tabasco sauce, or to
           -taste
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper, or to taste
      1 tb Celery salt, or to taste
           Freshly ground pepper
      2    Inner ribs celery, very
           -finely diced
  Number of Servings:   6
  homemade garlic croutons (optional)
  Core the 5 medium tomatoes and coarsely chop them.  Whiz the garlic in a
  blender or food processor, add the tomatoes and puree until smooth. Strain
  the puree into a large non-reactive bowl.
  Coarsely chop 1 of the cucumbers, 1/2 of the onion, and 1/2 of the green
  and red bell peppers.  Add the chopped vegetables to the processor (if
  using a blender, add 1/2 cup of the tomato or vegetable juice as well).
  Process until liquified; strain into the large bowl, pressing down with the
  back of a spoon to extract all liquid.
  Add to the bowl the remaining juice, olive oil, red wine vinegar, vodka or
  vermouth if using, lime juice, worcestershire, Tabasco, cayenne pepper,
  celery salt and pepper.  Stir well.  Cover and refrigerate for 4 hours or
  overnight.
  Finely dice the Roma tomatoes, remaining 1/2 onion, 1/2 green and red
  peppers and 1 cucumber.  Add the finly diced celery.  Reserve, refrigerated
  in small mixing bowl.
  To serve, ladle soup into chilled individual bowls.  Sprinkle with the
  chopped vegetables and croutons, if using.
  Note:  If this is just for the family, I toss all of the diced vegetables
  right into the soup as it's chilling (it doesn't last long enough for the
  veggies to get limp).  And I might go to the trouble of making croutons, or
  maybe not.
  Posted by Barb Burgess. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Barley Buttermilk Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetarian
   Servings:  4
    1/2 c  Barley
      1 qt Water
           Salt
    1/4 c  Finely diced red onion
      3 c  Buttermilk
    1/2 ts Turmeric
    1/4 c  Finely chopped parsley
      2 tb Finely chopped dill; -=OR=-
    1/2 ts -Dried Dill
      1 tb Finely chopped cilantro
      1 tb Snipped chives
           Freshly ground pepper
      1 ds Paprika or herb blossoms
           -(if available, for garnish)
  RINSE THE BARLEY and put it in a pot with the water and salt to taste.
  Bring to a boil, lower the heat, and simmer until the barley is tender,
  about 45 minutes. Drain the barley. (The liquid can be reserved to use in
  another soup.) Toss the onions into the warm barley to wilt them slightly;
  then put the mixture in a soup bowl with the buttermilk. Stir in the
  turmeric and herbs and season to taste with additional salt. Cover and
  refrigerate until chilled. Serve with freshly ground pepper and paprika or
  with a garnish of blossoms, such as chive blossoms, cilantro flowers or
  mustard petals.
  Makes 1 Quart
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
      Title: Barley Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      2 qt Chicken Stock
      1 c  Cooked Chicken, Cubed
           Small Onion, Sliced In Rings
           Rib Celery, Chopped
           Parsnip, Sliced Thin
      1 c  Pearl Barley
           Small Strip Kombu *
      1 ts Dried Basil
    1/4 ts Ground White Pepper
      1 ds Salt (opt.)
    1/4 c  Shredded Carrot (opt.)
  * Available in health stores, it make beans and peas more digestible.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Combine all ingredients except salt and carrot and simmer until the barley
  is cooked, about 45 minutes. Season to taste with salt if needed and
  garnish with shredded carrot if desired. Note: Barley soup can be a
  soothing and digestible meal for convalescents. Omit the chicken to make it
  easier to eat. This soup is rich in protein, carbohydrates, and fiber.
      Title: Barley Soup with Ham
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  5
      3 tb Vegetable oil
      1    Onion, chopped
      2    Garlic cloves, chopped
      2    Carrots, diced
      2    Ribs celery, diced
    3/4 c  Pearl barley
      6 c  Chicken broth
      1 sm Imported bay leaf
    1/4 ts Ground allspice
    1/2 c  Diced smoked ham
      3 tb Unsalted butter
    1/3 lb Fresh mushrooms, trimmed and
           -chopped
      3 ts Lemon juice
      1 tb Fresh parsley leaves, minced
  Put the oil and onion in a soup kettle, set over low heat, and cook until
  the onions are softened, about 5 minutes.  Raise heat to medium, stir in
  the garlic and carrots, and stir-cook for one minute.  Add the celery and
  stir-cok for a minute.  Add the barley, broth, bay leaf, and allspice.
  Bring to the boil, skimming the top of the soup as necessary. Simmer,
  covered, for about one hour, or until the barley is tender.  (The soup may
  be prepared in advance to this point.)
  Stir the ham into the piping hot soup and let simmer while you prepare the
  mushrooms.  Heat the butter in a small skillet, add the mushrooms and lemon
  juice, and stir-cook for 2 to 3 minutes.  Stir in the parsley. Add the
  mushroom mixture to the soup and simmer for 5 minutes longer. Discard the
  bay leaf.  Season the soup with salt and freshly- ground pepper to taste.
  Ladle into warmed bowls and serve immediately.
  Makes 5 servings.
  [WASHINGTON POST  Jan 11, 1989] Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Barley Soup Casserole
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
    1/2 c  Each: chopped onion, celery
           -and bell pepper
      1    Garlic clove, minced
      1 c  Medium pearl barley
    1/4 c  Tomato paste
      2 ts Instant beef bouillon
           -granules
  2 1/2 c  Boiling water
      1 cn Tomatoes or stewed tomatoes,
           -with liquid (14.5 ounces)
  Crumble beef into a microwave safe plastic colander suspended over a 3 qt.
  casserole.  Top with onion, celery, bell pepper and garlic; cover with
  casserole lid or vented plastic wrap.  Stirring midway through cooking,
  microwave on HIGH for 6 minutes, or until beef is no longer pink.
  Discard grease and place barley, tomato paste and bouillon in same
  casserole.  Pour boiling water over barley; stir.  Top with beef mixture
  and tomatoes with liquid; do not stir.  Re-cover and microwave on MEDIUM-
  HIGH (70 %) for 30 minutes.  Stir and let stand for 5 minutes.
  Makes 6 servings.
  Nutritional value per serving: 360 calories 23 grams protein 34 grams
  carbohydrates   4 grams fiber 15 grams fat 66 milligrams cholesterol 545
  milligrams sodium
      Title: Basic Chowder
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  2
      4 oz Bacon bits
      1    Carrot, thinly sliced
      2    Sticks celery, thinly sliced
      1    Onion, coarsely chopped
      1    Bay leaf
      2    Cloves of garlic (or 3)
      1 ts Pepper
  Fry the bacon in a large pot and remove.  Add the carrot and celery and
  cook over medium heat for 2 minutes.  Add the onion, bay leaf and whole
  cloves of garlic.  Stir and add the pepper.
  "All you really need is a big pot and some bacon bits.  After that, you
  improvise....  (Otherwise) we are stuck with the tyranny of the formal
  recipe which defines The Only Way To Do It in a form as exact, and
  frequently as exciting, as a prescription from the doctor."
  Source:  Urban Peasant by James Barber Shared by Elizabeth Rodier 6/93
      Title: Basic Cream Soup and Variations
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  6
      4 c  Fresh vegetables, coarsley
           -chopped
      4 tb Flour
      5 c  Chicken stock
      3 c  Light cream
      5 tb Butter
           Salt and Pepper to taste
           CREAM OF CAULIFLOWER SOUP:
      4 c  Cauliflower flowerets
           Paprika
           Basic cream soup recipe
           CREAM OF BROCCOLI SOUP:
      5 c  Broccoli
           A pinch or two of nutmeg
           Basic Cream soup recipe
           CREAM OF CUCUMBER SOUP:
      4 c  Cucumbers, peeled, seeded
           -and diced
    1/2 c  Sour cream
           Basic cream soup recipe
           CREAM OF LIMA BEAN SOUP:
      4 c  Lima beans
      4 tb Crisply fried bacon crumbled
           Basic cream soup recipe
           CREAM OF SPINACH SOUP:
      4 c  Spinach, coarsely chopped
      2    Hard cooked egg yolks
           Basic cream soup recipe
           CREAM OF ASPARAGUS SOUP:
      4 c  Tender asparagus tips
  BASIC CREAM SOUP: Pumpernickel croutons Basic cream soup recipe
  Peel the vegetable, if necessary, and chop coarsely.  Place in a saucepan
  with 3 cups of the stock.  Cook over medium heat until the vegetable is
  tender.  Set aside 1/2 cup choice pieces of cooked vegetables to use as a
  garnish.  Puree the remaining cooked vegetable together with the vegetable
  water in an electric blender, or press through a strainer. Melt the butter
  in a soup kettle, blend in the flour, and stir in the cream. Simmer over a
  low flame, stirring constantly for 3 minutes. Stir in the pureed vegetable
  and the remaining 2 cups of chicken stock, and simmer for 3 minutes more.
  Adjust the seasonings and serve in individual bowls garnished with the
  reserved cooked vegetable. Serve hot or cold.
  Cream of Cauliflower Soup: Prepare soup as directed in Basic cream soup.
  Garnish with reserved cauliflower and a sprinkle of paprika. Serve hot or
  cold.
  Cream Of Broccoli Soup: Peel the stems and break broccoli into flowerets.
  Slice the stems. Proceed as directed in Basic cream soup recipe. Serve with
  nutmeg sprinkled on top.
  Cream Of Cucumber Soup: Reserve 1/2 cup diced raw cucumber to use as a
  garnish.  Cook remaining cucumber for 8 minutes. Proceed as directed in
  Basic cream soup recipe. Serve hot or cold with a dollop of sour cream in
  the center of each bowl.
  Cream Of Lima Bean Soup: Prepare soup as directed in Basic cream soup
  recipe but do not reserve any lima beans. Serve hot, garnished with
  crumbled bacon.
  Cream Of Spinach Soup: Prepare soup as directed in basic cream soup recipe,
  but do not reserve any spinach. Serve hot or cold, garnished with
  hard-cooked egg yolks forced through a fine sieve.
  Cream Of Asparagus Soup: Prepare soup as directed in basic cream soup
  recipe.  Garnish with reserved asparagus tips and Pumpernickel croutons.
  Serve hot or cold.
  Posted by Pat Stockett. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Basic Fish Chowder
 Categories: Fish, Soups
   Servings:  6
      1 lb Fish fillets
      2 sl Bacon, chopped
    1/2 c  Onion, chopped
      2 c  Fish stock or water
      1 c  Raw potato, sliced
      2 c  Milk
      1 ts Salt
      1 ds Of pepper
  Salmon, halibut, rockfish or cod may be used for the fish.  Fry bacon until
  crisp; add onion and cook until tender.  Add water and potatoes and simmer
  10 minutes or until the potatoes are partially tender.  Cut fish into 1
  inch cubes and add and simmer again until fish and potatoes are tender. Add
  milk and seasonings; heat thoroughly and serve immediately.  Serves six.
  VARIATION:
  2 cups grated cheddar cheese may be added before the milk is added.  Stir
  until melted and proceed.  2 tbsp may be added for thickness.
      Title: Bay Country Crab Soup
 Categories: Soups, Seafood, Crabmeat
   Servings:  5
      1 lb Beef shin, bone in
      3 qt Water
      1 lg Onion, chopped
      2 lg Stalks celery, chopped
      1 lb Can of tomatos
      1 tb Salt
    1/4 ts Black pepper
    1/8 ts Cayenne pepper
     10 oz Package frozen mixed
           -vegetables
      1    Pckg fresh or frozen mixed
           -soup vegetables
      1 lb Maryland crab meat
    1/2 lb Maryland claw crabmeat
  Put first 8 ingredients in a large pan and simmer, covered, until meat is
  very tender, about 3 hours.  Add rest of ingredients and simmer, covered,
  until vegetables are done.
  Makes about 5 quarts of soup.
  Posted by Alison Meyer. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Bazaar Vegetable Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  8
     10 c  Cold water
    3/4 c  Green split peas
      2 tb Pearl barley
    1/4 c  Baby lima beans
      2 c  Sliced carrots
      1 lg Onion, diced
           Handful of celery tops, cut
           -up
      4 tb Commercial chicken soup base
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      1 ts Dillweed
      1 pn Sugar
    1/4 c  Buckshot (pellet shaped
           -pasta)
  Salt & pepper to taste
  Place water in stock pot.  Add split peas, pearl barley and lima beans.
  Cook until peas are mush.  Add carrots, onion, celery tops, chicken soup
  base, butter or margarine, dill weed, sugar, pasta, salt and pepper. Cook
  slowly until vegetables are done.  Stir frequently to prevent scorching on
  bottom.  May be frozen.  More water may be added to soup if too thick. Cook
  for 3 to 4 hours.
  Makes 8 to 10 servings.
  NOTE:  This recipe was developed by a woman who sells the soup at Hadassah
  Bazaars.  She says the secret to the soup is long slow cooking and the
  addition of the dill weed.  It's a very tasty one!
  Posted by Debra Young. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Bea's Unstuffed Cabbage
 Categories: Ground beef, Soups
   Servings:  6
      1    Onion diced (1 cup)
      2 lb Head green cabbage,dice
      8 oz Tomato sauce
     28 oz Can peeled tomatoes & juice
      1 c  Water
    1/2 c  Honey
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/3 c  Raisins
      1 lb Ground beef or veal or lamb
    1/2 c  Raw white rice
      1 ts Worchestershire Sauce
    1/2 ts Salt (optional)
           Ground pepper to taste
  NOTE:  This has a long cooking time.  It is a dish that is best prepared
  early in the day and reheated at serving time since the flavor improves.
  NOTE:  Ms. Brody says that this dish could easily feed a crowd if you have
  a pot or pots big enough to double or guadruple, etc. it.
  1.  In a large heavy pot combine all the soup ingredients except the
  raisins.  Bring to a boil over medium-high heat while preparing the
  meatballs.
  2.  Combine meatball ingredients, stirring them to mix thoroughly. With wet
  hands, roll the meat mixture in 1 1/4" balls.  Add the meatballs to the
  boiling cabbage soup, reduce the heat to medium-low, cover and simmer for 2
  hours.
  3.  Remove the cover, add the raisins, and cook for another 30 minutes in
  the uncovered pot.
  She suggests that mashed potatoes would be an excellent accompaniment.
  Also, that the dish goes well with broad egg noodles.
  Posted by Sheila Exner. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Bean and Pasta Soup
 Categories: Soups, Pasta, Vegetables, Cheese
   Servings:  4
      2 pk Low-Sodium Instant Vegetable
           -Broth And Seasoning Mix
           Dissolved IN
  1 1/2 c  Hot Water
      1 c  Low-Sodium Canned Stewed
           -Tomatoes
  4 1/2 oz Uncooked Small Shell
           -Macaroni
     14 oz Rinsed, Drained, Canned Red
           -Kidney Beans
      1 c  Thawed Frozen Spinach,
           -Chopped
    1/2 ts Oregano Leaves
    1/2 ts Basil Leaves
    3/4 oz Grated Parmesan Cheese
  Yield: 4 Servings Of 3/4 Cup Each
  In a 2 1/2-quart saucepan, combine the dissolved broth mix and tomatoes;
  cook over medium heat until the mixture comes to a boil. Add the macaroni
  and cook for 7 minutes.  Add the beans, spinach, oregano and basil and stir
  to combine; cook until the macaroni is tender, 5 to 7 minutes.  (If the
  soup is too thick, add a small amount of water.)
  Divide the soup into 4 soup bowls and sprinkle each portion with 1/4 of the
  Parmesan Cheese.
  Each serving provides: 2 Proteins; 1 Vegetable, 1 1/2 Breads, 5 Optional
  Calories
  Per Serving: 350 Milligrams Sodium; 5 Milligrams Cholesterol
      Title: Bean and Pistou Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  1
      2 c  Chicken broth
      2 cn White beans, rinsed and
           -drained (19-ounce cans)
      2 tb Pesto sauce
      2 tb Grated Parmesan cheese
           Freshly ground black pepper
  Put the broth and beans in a saucepan over moderate heat and bring to a
  boil.  Reduce heat to low and stir in the remaining ingredients. Simmer for
  about 1 minute.
  Makes four 1-cup servings.
  Nutrition information per serving: Calories: 496 Protein: 29.4 grams Fat:
  11.5 grams Colesterol: 3.9 mg Fiber: 22.1 grams Sodium: 483 mg
  [ MODERN MATURITY;  April/May 1990 ]
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Bean Soup
 Categories: Penn-dutch, Soups
   Servings:  1
  1 1/2 lb Soup Beans
      2 c  Celery, Ddiced
    1/2 c  Onion, Cchopped
      1 c  Strained Tomatoes
      2 ts Parsley, Minced
    1/2 c  Diced Potatoes
           Salt & Pepper
  Soak beans overnight in water to cover. In morning, drain off the water,
  add fresh water and cook until almost soft. Wash ham and cover with cold
  water and boil until tender. Skim fat from the broth and add the beans and
  other ingredients and cook until potatoes are soft. Serve at once. Source:
  Pennsylvania Dutch Cook Book - Fine Old Recipes, Culinary Arts Press, 1936.
      Title: Beef and Vegetable Soup
 Categories: Soups, Beef, Vegetables
   Servings:  6
      1 tb Corn oil
      1 lb Stewing beef, cut into
           -1/2-inch cubes
      1 lb Sweet Italian sausage links,
           -sliced
      1 cn Tomatoes (28 ounces)
      3 c  Water
      1 c  Chopped onion
      1 ts Salt
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      2 lg Potatoes, peeled, cut into
           -1/2-inch cubes
      1 c  Sliced celery
  In a large, heavy kettle, heat the oil; add the beef and brown on all
  sides.  Remove the meat with a slotted spoon and set aside.  Add the
  sausage to the kettle and brown on all sides.  Drain off the drippings from
  the kettle.  Add the tomatoes, water, onion, salt, Worcestershire sauce and
  the reserved browned beef.  Bring to a boil, then reduce the heat; simmer,
  covered, until almost tender, about 1 1/2 hours.  Add the cubed potatoes
  and sliced celery; simmer until the vegetables and meat are tender, about
  20 minutes more.
  [THE BALTIMORE SUN; January 16, 1991]
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Beef Soup
 Categories: Soups, 1941
   Servings:  6
      3 lb Beef shank
    1/3 c  Diced carrots
      1 tb Minced onion
    1/4 ts Celery salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      3 qt Cold water
    1/3 c  Diced turnips
      1    Bay leaf
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Cooking fat
  Wipe beef shank.  Cut meat in small pieces.  Crush bone.  Brown meat in hot
  cooking fat.  combine meat, bone, bay leaf, celery salt, water, salt, and
  pepper.  Cover.  Simmer slowly 4-5 hours. Skim as necessary. Brown
  vegetables in hot cooking fat.  Add to meat broth. Simmer until vegetables
  are tender.  6 servings.
  The Household Searchlight
      Title: Beef Stew with Ale
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
  2 1/2 lb Chuck steak
      3 tb Oil
      4 lg Onions, chopped
      2 cl Garlic, crushed
      1 tb Prepared mustard
      2 tb Flour
  1 1/2 c  Ale
      1    Bay leaf
      2    Sprigs parsley
    1/4 ts Peppercorns
    1/2 ts Thyme
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Grated nutmeg
  1>. Preheat oven to 350 deg.F. Trim beef and brown in a skilet in hot oil.
  2>. Transfer beef to a casserole and brown onions in oil. Add garlic,
  mustard, and flour. Stir in ale and add the bouquet garni ingredients,
  tying them in a small piece of cheesecloth. Add salt, sugar, and nutmeg.
  3>. Pour sauce over browned beef. Cover casserole and place in the oven for
  2 hours.
      Title: Beef Vegetable Soup
 Categories: Soups, Beef
   Servings:  6
      1    Text Only
  Wash soup bones.  Put on aluminum lined tray and brown in a 400F oven until
  well browned on both sides.  Put bones in soup pot, drain grease and then
  get as much of the browned bits as possible using a little water to help
  them along.  Add water until the bones are well covered. Turn on heat. Add
  carrots, onions, celery, tomatoes (whatever goes with the soup) some salt
  and pepper and let simmer most of the day. Remove bones and chop what meat
  there is.  Throw out the vegetables and skim off as much fat as possible
  (if left in refrigerator overnight it will come to the top and get hard and
  can be removed easily).  Put chopped meat back, add 3 quarts whole tomatoes
  (mashed), a couple of cubed potatoes, and about a half package of frozen
  mixed vegetables.  Let simmer until potatoes are done and until needed. The
  soup is better the next day. Cooked noodles can be added.
  Posted by Pat Stockett. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Beefy Spaghetti Soup
 Categories: Soups, Microwave, Garlic, Beans
   Servings:  4
    1/2 lb Ground Beef, Crumbled
      1 c  Frozen Cut Green Beans
      1    Medium Onion
  1 1/2 c  Broken Spaghetti (Uncooked)
      1    Clove Garlic, Minced
      1 ts Parsley Flakes
      4 c  Beef Stock
    3/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Olive Oil
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1    Mushrooms, Sliced
      1    Bay Leaf
      1    Can Tomato Sauce
    1/2 ts Oregano
  In large casserole combine ground beef, onion, garlic, and oil.  Microwave
  on high until meat is no longer pink, stirring once during cooking. Drain.
  Add remaining ingredients.  Cover.  Microwave on high until spaghetti is
  done (20 to 25 minutes).  Stir occasionally.
      Title: Beer and Cheese Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      1 c  Carrots, chopped
      1 c  Celery, chopped
      1 c  Yellow onions, peeled and
           -chopped
      2 ts Peanut oil
      6 c  Chicken soup stock or broth
      1 c  Cheddar cheese, grated
      2 ts Flour
           Salt and pepper to taste
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
    1/8 ts Tabasco sauce (or more to
           -taste)
    1/8 ts Worcwstershire sauce
     12 oz Beer (1 bottle) [stale is
           -OK]
  Parsley for garnish Polish sausage or knackwurst (Optional)
  Saute the carrots, celery, and onion in the oil until lightly browned.
  Bring the soup stock to a boil; add to the vegetables and simmer for 45
  minutes.
  Dredge the cheese in the flour.  Mix the cheese into the soup,
  STIRRING CONSTANTLY, until the mixture thickens.  Keep stirring often until
  you serve.
  Add the salt, pepper, Tabasco sauce, and Worcestershire sauce. Finally, add
  the beer and stir until all is hot.  Garnish with parsley and serve.
  You may add sliced cooked sausage to this soup just before serving.
  Serves 6 to 8.
  [The Frugal Gourmet; 1984]
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Beet Soup with Dill and Yogurt
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  6
      1 tb Oil
      1 md Onion; sliced
      1 lb Beets
           - peeled and coarsely diced,
      1 qt Chicken stock; or canned
           - low-sodium chicken broth
      1 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Plain yogurt
      3 tb Chopped fresh dill
  HEAT OIL IN PAN over low heat. Add onions and cook, stirring, about 12
  minutes. Add beets and cook, covered, about 35 minutes, stirring
  occasionally, until beets are falling apart. Add stock and salt. Cover and
  bring to boil. Reduce heat and simmer 15 minutes. Strain and reserve
  liquid. Transfer beets to blender or food processor and puree until smooth.
  Return puree to pan and add reserved liquid. Pour hot soup into tureen and
  ladle soup into bowls in front of guests. Decorate each soup bowl with 2
  tablespoons yogurt and sprinkle yogurt with chopped dill.
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
      Title: Benne-Oyster Soup
 Categories: Soups, Oysters
   Servings:  2
      1 tb Benne (sesame seeds)
      1 c  Oyster liquor, drained from
           -the oysters
      1 c  Cream
     12 lg Oysters, shucked
  Caynne pepper and freshly ground black pepper
  On a baking sheet in a preheated 350 degree F. oven or in a heavy bottomed
  pan over medium heat, cook the benne seeds until evenly browned, about
  10-15 minutes. Remove to a mortar and grind with a pestle, until a paste
  forms, adding a few drops of oyster liquor or cream if necessary. Heat the
  cream and oyster liquor together in a saucepan. Gradually stir in the benne
  paste, the add the oysters and continue to heat until oysters are just
  curled. It takes only a minute. Season with cayenne and black pepper.
  Serves 2.
  SOURCE: *Hoppin' John's Lowcountry Cooking Published Early American Life
  8/93 POSTED BY: Jim Bodle 9/93
      Title: Berry Buttermilk Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  5
      2 c  Fresh or frozen loose-pack
           -blueberries or strawberries
  1 1/2 c  Water
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Finely shredded orange peel
      2 tb Orange juice
      2 c  Buttermilk
  Thaw berries, if frozen; drain. If desired, set aside 5 or 6 berries for
  garnish. In 1 1/2-quart saucepan combine berries, water, sugar, orange
  peel, and juice. Bring to boiling. Reduce heat; cover and simmer 20
  minutes. Cool 30 minutes.
  Pour into blender container; cover and blend till smooth. Stir in the
  buttermilk. Cover and chill thoroughly. If desired garnish each serving
  with reserved berry or thin orange slice. Makes 5 to 6 servings.
  Recipe from: Better Homes and Gardens, Soups & Stews Cookbook Copyright
  1978 by Meredith Corporation, Des Moines, Iowa
      Title: Best Pinto Bean Soup
 Categories: Soups, Beans
   Servings:  6
      3 c  Dry Rose brand Pinto Beans
      2    Ham hocks or 2 slices ham
      1 c  Diced onions
      1 c  Diced celery
      1 cn Tomato sauce
      1 cn Tomato soup
  Salt pepper and vegetable salt to taste
  Cooks beans with ham (diced) or ham hocks.  When almost done, add diced
  onions, celery, tomato sauce and soup.  Add water as needed to make a
  medium thick soup.
  Posted by Donna Ransdell. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Black Bean Soup with Rum
 Categories: Soups, Fresh herbs, Beans
   Servings:  4
-------------------------------SOUP------------------------------------
      2 c  Onion, Chopped
      1 c  Celery, Chopped
      6    Parsley
      2    Fresh Thyme
      1    Bay Leaf
      3 tb Unsalted Butter
      1    Large Ham Hock
      2 c  Dried Black Beans
      6 c  Beef Broth
    1/3 c  Dark Rum
           Lemon Juice To Taste
----------------------------GARNISHES---------------------------------
           Eggs, Hard-Cooked, Chopped
           Fresh Parsley, Chopped
           Lemon Slices
  The night before, soak beans in cold water to cover by 2 inches.  Change
  water at least once.  Drain and rinse.  In a heavy kettle, cook onion,
  celery, parlsey, thyme, and bay leaf in the butter over medium low heat,
  stirring, for 10 minutes.  Add ham hock, beans, broth, 4 cups water, salt
  and pepper to taste.  Bring the mixture to a boil, reduce heat and simmer,
  uncovered, adding more water if necessary to keep beans covered, for 3 3
  hours.  Discard ham hock and bay leaf.  Put the mixture through a medium
  disk of a food mill into a large bowl and then return it to the kettle.
  Stir in rum, lemon juice, and salt and pepper to taste.  Adjust the
  consistency with hot water and garnish for serving with the eggs, parsley
  and lemon slices.  Makes about 7 cups. A 1971 Gourmet Magazine Favorite.
      Title: Black Bean Soup
 Categories: Soups, Beans
   Servings:  8
      2 c  Dried black beans
      1 md Onion; finely diced
      3 tb Butter or oil
      1 sm Carrot
           - peeled and finely diced
      1    Celery stalk; finely diced
      6 c  Chicken broth
      1    Ham hock
      1 ts Thyme
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Dry sherry
           Sour cream
           Chopped fresh dill
  THE NIGHT BEFORE, place beans in a bowl, cover with 3 inches of water and
  soak at least 8 hours or up to 10. Or, for a quick-cook method, place beans
  in hot water for 1 hour before continuing with the recipe. Combine onion
  and oil in a 2-quart pot over medium heat on top of the stove and cook,
  stirring occasionally, for 5 minutes. Add the carrot and celery and cook
  another 5 minutes. Add the drained beans, stock, ham hock, thyme. Cover,
  increase heat to high and bring to a boil. Decrease heat to low and cook,
  covered, for 1 1/2 hours. Place beans and liquid in a food processor or
  blender and puree until smooth. Pour the puree back into the pot and add
  lemon juice and sherry. Place a dollop of sour cream in each soup bowl and
  sprinkle with some chopped fresh dill. Pour the piping hot soup at the
  table.
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
      Title: Black Bean Soup with Jalapenos
 Categories: Soups, Hot
   Servings:  8
      8    Jalapeno chiles, stems and
           -seeds removed, chopped
      1 tb Dried crushed red chile,
           -seeds included
      2 c  Black beans, sorted and
           -rinsed
      2 tb Bacon fat or vegetable oil
      2 md Onions, chopped
      4    Cloves garlic, minced
      1 lg Ham hock
      1 c  Canned tomatoes, chopped
      2 ts Ground cumin
      1 ts Ground epazote (optional)
      1 ts Ground coriander
    1/4 ts Ground cloves
      1 tb Red wine vinegar
      6    To 8 cups water
      3 tb Tequila (optional)
  Serves 8
  Sour cream for garnish
  Cover the beans with water and soak them overnight.
  Saute onion and garlic in bacon fat until soft.
  Combine all ingredients, except tequila and sour cream, in large pot and
  bring to a boil.  Reduce heat and simmer for 2 to 3 hours or until beans
  are soft.
  Remove ham hock and shred meat.
  Divide soup in half, puree half of it and add back to the remaining soup.
  Add shredded meat and simmer for 15 minutes or until thickened to desired
  consistency.
  Remove from heat, stir in tequila, garnish with sour cream, and serve.
  The Whole Chili Pepper From the collection of Jim Vorheis
      Title: Black Bean Soup
 Categories: Beans, Soups
   Servings:  6
      2 c  Black beans
      4 tb Butter
      2 md Onions
      4    Carrots
    1/2    Head of celery
      4    Cloves garlic
      8 oz Ham
      3 qt Chicken stock
           X   cayenne
           X   tabasco
      1 tb Cumin
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/4 c  Pepper
    1/4 c  Flour
      1 tb Red wine vinegar
      2 tb Sherry
           Diced red peppers, opt
           Sliced hard oiled egg, opt
           Sour cream, opt
  Soak beans 4 hours or overnight and drain. Dice all vegetables and saute in
  butter over medium heat in a large pot until tender. Add ham and seasonings
  and simmer 1/2 hour, stirring occasionally. Stir in flour and add chicken
  stock and beans. Simmer for three hours or until beans are tender. Add
  vinegar and sherry and puree using a blender. Garnish with sour cream,
  diced red pepper or hard boiled egg. From the Vanilla Bean Cafe, voted best
  new restaurant.
      Title: Black Bean Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings: 20
      2 lb Black beans
    1/2 c  Sunflower oil
    1/2 lb Bacon
    1/2 lb Diced ham
      8    Onions, chopped
      7    Cloves garlic, minced
      7    Stalks celery w/leaves,
           Chopped
      3 c  Uncooked brown rice
    1/2 ts Cayenne
      1 tb Mixed vegetable seasoning
      4 ts Ground cumin
      6 qt Chicken broth (OR
      3    Bouillon cubes AND
      6 qt Of water)
    1/4 c  White wine
      1 c  Sherry
  Wash black beans, cover with water and allow to soak overnight; rinse;
  drain; set aside.  Pour oil into large soup pot.  Add bacon, ham, onion,
  garlic and celery.  Cook at high simmer until vegetables are soft, about 30
  minutes.  Add beans, rice, seasonings, and broth to soup pot.  Bring to a
  boil; reduce heat, cover and simmer 2 1/2 to 3 hours.  Let soup cool; put
  through blender a little at a time until smooth.  Return to soup pot;
  reheat on low about 45 minutes, adding wine and sherry. Ladle into bowls.
      Title: Black Bean "Cassoulet" Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings: 16
      2 lb Dried black (turtle) beans
  1 1/4 c  Best-quality olive oil
      3 c  Diced yellow onions
     12    Cloves garlic, crushed
      1    Very meaty ham bone or 2
           -smoked ham hocks
      8 qt Water
  3 1/2 tb Ground cumin
      2 tb Dried oregano
      3    Bay leaves
      1 tb Coarse (kosher) salt
      1 tb Freshly ground black pepper
      1 pn Cayenne pepper
      8 tb Chopped fresh Italian
           -parsley
  1 3/4    To 2 pounds fresh garlic
           -sausage
      6    Sweet Italian sausage links,
           -cut into 1-inch pieces
      6    Hot Italian sausage links,
           -cut into 1-inch pieces
      1 lb Bratwurst, cut into 1-inch
           -pieces
      3    Medium-size sweet red
           -peppers, cored, seeded, and
           -diced
    1/4 c  Dry sherry
      3 tb Dark brown sugar
      2 tb Fresh lemon juice
  From The Silver Palate Good Times Cookbook.
  " Our black bean soup is a Silver Palate staple.  In this recipe we've
  dressed it up with lots of hot and garlicky sausages, sweet red peppers, a
  bit of brown sugar, and unusual spices.  This makes a meal when served with
  a crisp, tart green salad."
  Sour cream
  1.  Soak the black beans in water to cover overnight.
  2.  Heat 1 cup of the oil in a large heavy stock pot over low heat. Add the
  onions and garlic and saute until the onions are limp, about 10 minutes.
  3.  Drain and rinse the beans and add to the stock pot.  Add the ham bone
  and 6 quarts of the water.  Stir in the cumin, oregano, bay leaves, salt,
  pepper, cayenne, and 3 tablespoons of the parsely.  Heat to boiling. Reduce
  heat to medium and cook uncovered at a slow rolling boil for 2 hours,
  skimming foam from the top and stirring occasionally to prevent sticking.
  4.  Place the garlic sausage in a medium-size saucepan and add the
  remaining 2 quarts water.  Heat to boiling.  Reduce heat to low and simmer
  for 40 minutes.  Drain.  Remove casings and cut into 1/2-inch slices.
  5.  Heat the remaining 1/4 cup oil in a large heavy skillet over medium
  heat.  Add the Italian sausages and saute until browned.  Remove the
  sausages with a slotted spoon.
  6.  In the same skillet, saute the bratwurst until browned.  Remove with a
  slotted spoon.
  7.  After 2 hours of cooking, process 2 cups of the beans in a food
  processor fitted with a steel blade until smooth and return to the pot.
  Continue to cook for 30 minutes.
  8.  Add all the sausages and the red peppers and cook for another 30
  minutes.
  9.  Remove the ham bone from the soup, shred the meat and return to the
  pot.  Stir in the sherry, sugar, and lemon juice.
  10.  Cook over medium heat until the beans are very soft and the soup is
  thick, 30 to 45 minutes.  Stir in the remaining 5 tablespoons chopped
  parsley.  Taste and adjust seasonings.
  11.  Ladle the soup into soup bowls and dollop each serving with sour
  cream.
  Makes 16 portions.
  Posted by Kyosho Connick. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Black Bean Soup with Cumin
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  4
      1 c  Black beans, soaked (see
           -methods below)
      7 c  Broth (chicken, beef, or
           -vegetable)
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      1 lg Onion, minced (1 cup)
      1 lg Clove garlic, minced (1
           -teaspoon)
    1/4 c  Diced celery
    1/2 c  Finely diced carrots
    3/4 ts Crushed cumin seed, or to
           -taste
    1/4 ts Freshly groun black pepper
    1/4 ts Salt, if desired
      1    Chopped hard-boiled egg or
           -egg white and chopped
           -scallions for garnish
  Here is another one from Jane Brody's Good Food Book
  The cumin gives this black bean soup a distinctive and, my tasters said,
  appealing flavor.  Preparation tip:  For peak flavor, I use whole toasted
  cumin seed crushed in a mortar with a pestle.  You may also use ground
  cumin.  This soup freezes well (before the garnish is added).  ... This
  soup could also be used as the main dish of a light meal, perhaps topped
  with a generous dollop of plain low-fat yogurt.
  1.  To soak the beans, place the washed beans in a bowl, cover them with
  cold water, and let them soak overnight or for at least 8 hours. _Or_ place
  the washed beans in a saucepan, add 4 cups water, bring the beans to a
  boil, boil them for 2 minutes, turn off the heat, and let the beans stand
  for 1 hour.
  2.  Drain the soaked beans, add the broth, bring the beans to a boil,
  reduce the heat to low, and simmer the beans, partially covering the pan,
  for 2 to 3 hours or until the beans are thoroughly cooked.
  3.  In a heavy skillet, heat the oil, add the onion and garlic, and cook
  them, stirring, over a low heat, until they are transparent.  Add the
  celery and carrots and cook the mixture, stirring, for a few minutes
  longer.  Add the vegetables to the beans.
  4.  Season soup with cumin, pepper, and salt, if desired, and simmer the
  soup for another 30 minutes.
  5.  Puree the soup in a blender, food processor, or food mill. Serve the
  soup hot, garnished with chopped egg and minced scallions.
  Makes 4 to 6 servings.
  Posted by Kyosho Connick. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Black Bean Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetarian, Beans
   Servings:  6
      1 tb Safflower oil
      1    Onion, chopped
      4    Cloves Garlic, minced
      1    Stalk Celery, with leaves,
           -chopped
      1 lb Black beans, washed and
           -soaked for several hours
      6 c  Water or vegetable stock
      1    Bay leaf
      1 ts Summer savory
      1 pn Thyme
      1 pn Sage
    1/2 ts Celery seed
           Sea salt and freshly ground
           -pepper
           Juice of one lemon
      2 tb Dry Sherry
  From:  Gourmet Vegetarian Feasts, by Martha Rose Shulman, 1989
  Croutons and lemon slices for garnish Chopped fresh parsley for garnish
  Yogurt or creme fraiche for garnish
  Heat safflower oil in a soup pot or Dutch oven and saute onion with 2
  cloves of garlic and the celery until onion is tender.
  Drain beans and add to pot, along with water or stock, bay leaf, summer
  savory, thyme, sage, and celery seed.  Bring to a boil, reduce head, and
  simmer for 1 hour.  Add remaining garlic and sea salt and simmer another
  hour, covered.
  Remove bay leaf.  Puree half the soup in a blend or through a food mill and
  return to pot.  Correct seasoning and add freshly gournd pepper to taste.
  Stir in lemon juice and sherry, heat through, and serve, garnishing with
  yogurt or creme fraiche, croutons, lemon slices, and parsley.
  This can be frozen, and will keep for a few days in the refrigerator.
      Title: Black Bean Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  6
      1 lb Black beans
      1    Onion, stuck with 2 cloves
      1    Bay leaf
           Sprig   parsley
      1 md Onion, chopped
      1    Green pepper, chopped
      2    Cloves garlic, minced
      2 tb Oil
      1 ts Oregano
      1 ts Thyme
      1 ts Vinegar
      1 cn Tomato sauce (8 ounces)
    1/4 c  Dry sherry
  Chopped onion, parsley, chives or cucumber for garnish
  Soak the black beans overnight in water to cover.  To the same water add
  the onion stuck with cloves, bay leaf and parsley.  Bring to a boil and
  cook until the beans are tender.
  Cook the chopped onion, green pepper and garlic in the oil until soft. Add
  to the beans along with the remaining ingredients and cook until thickened.
  Pour in the dry sherry and serve with finely chopped raw onion or other
  garnish sprinkled on top.  (If a smooth soup is desired, puree in a
  blender.)
  Yield: 1 1/2 to 2 quarts.
  Approx. Calories per Serving: 1 cup = 250.
  [ "American Heart Association Cookbook (Fourth Edition) ISBN 0-679-50903-8
  ]
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Black Bean Soup
 Categories: Soups, Beans
   Servings: 10
      1 lb Dried black turtle beans
    1/3 c  Diced salt pork OR bacon
      2 tb Olive oil
    1/2 c  Diced smoked ham
      2 c  Finely chopped onions
      2    Cloves garlic, finely
           -chopped
      8 c  Beef broth, homemade or
           -canned
      8 c  Water
      1 lg Bay leaf
      1 sm Onion, peeled, studded with
           -2 whole cloves
      1 pn Leaf oregano, crumbled
      1 pn Ground hot red pepper
      2 ts Red-wine vinegar
      2 tb Dry sherry
    1/4 ts Ground black pepper
           GARNISH:
    1/4 c  Finely chopped smoked ham
      1 lg Green onion, finely chopped
      1    Hard-cooked egg, chopped
      1    Lime, thinly sliced
  SOUP:
  Soak the beans overnight in cold water to cover.  OR place in a large
  saucepan, cover with cold water, bring to boiling and boil for 2 minutes.
  Remove from heat.  Let stand for 1 hour, covered.  Drain.  Cook the salt
  pork in boiling water for 5 minutes.  Drain and pat dry with paper
  toweling.
  Heat the oil in a large, heavy pot or Dutch oven over medium heat. Add the
  salt pork and ham; cook, stirring, for 8 minutes.  Add the onion and
  garlic:  cook for 5 minutes.  Add the drained beans to the pot; stir well.
  Add the broth, 4 cups water, bay leaf, onion studded with cloves and the
  oregano.  Bring to boiling.  Lower heat and gently simmer, uncovered,
  stirring occasionally, until the beans are tender, about 1 1/2 hours. Add
  remaining water as the liquid cooks off.
  Discard the whole onion and bay leaf.  Remove more than half of the beans
  with a slotted spoon to a food processor.  Process to a smooth puree,
  adding soup liquid as necessary.  Stir the puree back into the soup. Add
  the hot red pepper, vinegar, sherry and black pepper. Continue cooking
  until the soup becomes quite thick, about 20 to 30 minutes. Serve with
  garnishes of smoked ham, green onion, hard-cooked egg, and lime on the
  side.
  Makes 10 servings.
  Nutrient Value per Serving (not including garnish): 254 Calories; 13 g
  Protein; 33 g Carbohydrate; 8 g Fat; 811 mg Sodium; 7 mg Cholesterol
  Exchanges: 2 starch/bread, 1 lean meat, 1 fat
  [FAMILY CIRCLE; Nov 6, 1990]
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Black Bean Soup
 Categories: Beans, Soups
   Servings:  4
      1 lb Black beans, rinsed and
           -sorted
      1    Smoked ham hock
      2    Onions, coarsely chopped
      1    Carrot, coarsely chopped
      1    Celery stalk, coarsely
           -chopped
      3 qt Chicken stock
    1/4 c  Tomato paste
  1 1/2 tb Ground cumin
      1 tb Curry powder
      1 ts Ground thyme
    1/2 ts Ground bay leaves
    1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
    1/2 ts Freshly ground white pepper
    1/2 c  Brewed coffee
      2 tb Dark rum
           Salt and freshly ground
           -pepper
      1 c  Cooked white rice
      3    Green onions, minced
      1 sm Red pepper, roasted, peeled,
           -seeded and diced
    1/2 bn Cilantro, minced
      1    Lime, thinly sliced
  Makes 4 quarts
  Combine beans, ham hock, onions, carrot and celery in heavy large saucepan.
  Add enough water to cover ingredients by 2 inches.  Bring to boil. Reduce
  heat and simmer uncovered for 1 hour.  Let mixture stand at room
  temperature overnight.
  Remove ham hock from beans.  Remove meat from bone.  Trim meat well. Chop
  finely; set aside.  Degrease bean mixture.  Add stock, tomato paste, cumin,
  curry, thyme, bay leaves, cayenne and white pepper and bring to boil.
  Reduce heat and simmer uncovered until beans are tender, stirring
  occasionally, about 2 hours.
  Using slotted spoon, transfer beans to blender and puree (in batches if
  necessary).  Return to saucepan.  Add coffee and rum.  Bring mixture to
  boil.  Mix in ham hock meat.  Season with salt and pepper.
  Combine rice, onions, bell pepper and cilantro.  Spoon some of mixture into
  each bowl.  Ladle soup over.  Garnish with lime.
  Chez Renee - Aptos, CA.
  Posted by Jim Vorheis. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Blackeyed Peas and Rice
 Categories: Low-cal, Rice, Beans, Soups
   Servings:  8
      1 x  Dried black-eyed peas
    1/2    Onion
      1 x  Lipton Rice 'n' Sauce Cajun
      1 tb Pepper
      1 x  Stew Meat
      1 ts Creole or Cajun seasoning
      1 x  Bell pepper
           Cayenne pepper or hot sauce
  Look thru peas for rocks and wash through 3 waters.  Soak peas in water
  overnight in fridge.  The next day, throw out water they soaked in; some
  claim this keeps beans from giving you a problem, but stay on this diet a
  couple weeks and you won't have a problem anyway.  It goes away.  Wash stew
  meat and put stew meat and pre-soaked peas in big pot on stove and bring to
  boil, with PLENTY of water.  Add seasonings to taste.  If you use Cajun
  seasoning it contains salt; so don't add extra salt!!!!  Otherwise, add
  salt to taste.  When stew meat and peas come to a boil, reduce to Medium
  and keep watching to add water so they don't scorch.  After about 40
  minutes add packet of Rice and Sauce, preferably Cajun flavor.  Start
  watching the water really carefully now, and add a pint from time to time.
  After about 20 minutes of rice cooking, add bell pepper, onion, and more
  seasonings if you need.  (This dish is good hot and peppery)  Everything
  should be ready at the same time. When test bite shows all is ready, eat!
      Title: Blender Broccoli Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
    1/2 c  Water
      2 ts Instant beef bouillon
           -granules
     10 oz Broccoli, frozen, chopped
      1 c  Milk
      1 c  Light cream
    1/4 ts Onion salt
    1/2 ts Onion salt
      1 ds Pepper
      1 ds Ground nutmeg
  In saucepan heat water and bouillon granules to boiling; add broccoli.
  Cover and simmer mixture for 3 minutes. Do not drain.
  In blender container or food processor combine half the broccoli mixture
  and half the milk. Cover and blend till broccoli is very fine.
  Add half the cream,the onion salt, pepper, and nutmeg, Cover and chill.
  Stir before serving. If desired garnish with sour cream and snipped chives.
  Makes 6 to 8 servings.
  Recipe from: Better Homes and Gardens, Soups & Stews Cookbook copyright
  1978 by Meredith Corporation, Des Moines, Iowa
      Title: Bogracs Gulyas - Kettle Goulash
 Categories: Soups, Garlic
   Servings:  6
      4 tb Bacon Fat
      5    Lg Onions, Coarsly Chopped
      2    Lg Green Peppers, Chopped
      3    Garlic Clove, Minced
  1 1/2 tb Hungarian Paprika
      3 lb Stewing Beef, In 1" Cubes
           Pepper, To Taste
           Salt, To Taste
      6 oz Tomato Paste
           Sour Cream, At Room Temp.
  Preheat oven to 325F.  Heat fat in a deep heavy pot.  Cook the onions,
  peppers, and garlic until the onions are limp and transparent.  Add paprika
  has lost its raw taste.  Add beef and remaining ingredients except sour
  cream.  Stir well to combine.  Simmer in preheated oven for 1 1/2 to 2
  hours or until the meat is tender.  Adjust oven temperature during cooking
  time so contents of pot remain at a simmer.  Serve in shallow soup bowls
  with a tablespoon of sour cream atop each serving.
      Title: Boot Scootin' Bean Soup
 Categories: Soups, Beans
   Servings:  6
      3 c  Dried Pinto Beans
      2 c  Cubed Ham
      2 c  Water
     22 oz Tomato Juice
      4 c  Chicken Stock (3 cans)
      2 c  Chopped Onions
      3    Cloves Garlic, minced
      3 tb Chopped Parsley
    1/4 c  Chopped Green Pepper
      2 tb Brown Sugar
      1 tb Chile Powder
      1 ts MSG
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Crushed Bay Leaves, (put in
           -tea ball)
      4    Whole Cloves, (put in tea
           -ball)
      1 ts Oregano
    1/2 ts Cumin
    1/2 ts Crushed Rosemary
    1/2 ts Celery Seed
    1/2 ts Ground Thyme
    1/2 ts Ground Marjoram
    1/2 ts Sweet Basil
    1/4 ts Curry
      1 c  Sherry
  Yield:  8 - 10 Servings
  Soak beans overnight.  Add all other ingredients except sherry and bring to
  boil.  Cook slowly until beans are tender.  Add Sherry.
  Copyrighted, TEXAS WINE SOCIETY COOKBOOK, 1992
  Provided by:  'Ol Ed, The Orchid Man
      Title: Boston Clam Chowder
 Categories: Soups, Clams
   Servings:  6
      3    Cups+ of half-and-half and
           -heated the chowder to just
           -below the boiling
  I visited with the creator of this wonderful chowder and though he did not
  give me the recipe, he did share some hints.  He uses only cream and
  butter, no wimpy milk for him.  He starts with a roux with chopped celery
  and onion and adds thyme, bay leaf and white pepper for seasoning. If fresh
  clams are not available, he recommends Snow's Chopped Clams.
  Using his tips, what I know about clam chowder and a little research, I
  created a very good clam chowder the other night.  I don't have the
  ingredient amounts, but it doesn't really matter if you've had some kitchen
  experience.  The real secret came from Chef Paul Prudhomme's Louisiana
  Kitchen cookbook.  I figured if I was going to mess with a roux, I might as
  well start with the expert roux maker.
  I made a 50/50 oil/flour roux --- using 1/4 cup olive oil and 1/4 cup
  butter and 1/2 cup flour.  I heated the oil as high as I dared and put in
  about 1/3 of the flour allowing it to foam and let the moisture in the
  flour escape --- be careful!  Roux can burn like hellfire.  I continued to
  add the flour and cooked the roux to a light golden color. I removed the
  roux from the heat and added about 1/2 cup finely chopped onions and 1/2
  cup finely chopped celery.  The hot roux cooks the veggies and the veggies
  cool down the roux.
  I drained the liquid from 4 7-ounce cans of clams and added a 7- ounce
  bottle of clam juice.  I put the clam nectar in a sauce pan and added about
  1 1/2 lbs of raw potatoes, peeled and cut into 1/2" cubes.  I added some
  thyme and a couple of bay leaves and some freshly ground white pepper.
  When the potatoes were cooked, I added some of the roux to thicken the
  chowder.  I ended up using all the roux.  I added the clams and about
  point, stirring frequently and tasted it for seasoning adjustment. Toward
  the end, I threw in a handful of real bacon bits for an added smokey
  flavor.  I topped the pot with 1/2 cube of butter and let it sit for about
  an hour to allow the flavors to blend.
  The result was the best clam chowder I have ever made.  To complete the
  dinner I served sweet cornbread and a carrot and raisin salad.
  Sorry, the amounts are not precise, but if you plan ahead, it's difficult
  to go wrong.
  Posted by Al Martin. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Bouillabaisse
 Categories: Soups, Seafood, Entertain
   Servings:  6
  1 1/2 lb Mussels, cut in pieces
      1 c  White wine
  1 1/2 lb Sole, cut in 1" pieces
  1 1/2 lb Snapper, cut in 1" pieces
      2 ts Ground saffron
      4 tb + 2 tsp butter
      5    Garlic cloves, crushed
      2    Onions, sliced
      1    Carrot, sliced
      2    Stalks celery, sliced
      1 ts Grated nutmeg
      1 ts Basil
      1 ts Thyme
      1    Bay leaf
      2 tb Soy sauce
      2 qt Water
     12 sl French bread
  Steam mussels for 3 to 4 minutes.  Dissolve saffron in warm wine; set
  aside.  Melt butter; add garlic, onion, carrot, celery, seasonings and soy
  sauce.  Cover and simmer for 5 minutes.  Add water and wine; bring to
  boiling; add fish.  Reduce heat and simmer for 10 minutes. Serve with
  toasted bread.
  Serves 6.
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Bouillon
 Categories: Soups, 1941
   Servings:  6
      4 lb Lean beef from shank
      2 lb Bone
      2 qt Cold water
    1/2 c  Diced celery
    1/2 c  Diced carrots
    1/2 c  Diced turnips
    1/2 c  Diced onions
      4    Cloves
           Salt
  Dice meat.  Crush bone.  Add water and cloves.  Heat slowly to boiling.
  Cover.  Simmer 5 hours.  Season to taste.  Add vegetables. Simmer 1 hour.
  Strain.  simmer until broth is reduced to 6 cups. Cool. Remove fat. Reheat
  bouillon. 6 servings.
  Florence I. Miller, Connersville, IN.
      Title: Bread or Invalid Soup
 Categories: Soups, Osg
   Servings:  1
      2 ea Bread; slices
      3 c  Water; hot
      1 ea Egg
           Seasoning
  Cut bread in 1/2 inch cubes, brown in butter in frying pan. When brown,
  pour hot water over bread. Break egg into this and stir. Season with salt
  and nutmeg. Source: Mabel Miller, Genoa Grange, Ottawa County, OH
      Title: Brenda's Black Bean Soup
 Categories: Soups, Beans
   Servings:  6
      3 c  Dried black beans
      2    Ham hocks
      1    Bell pepper (chopped)
      1 sm Onion (chopped)
      1    Whole sour orange or
           -tangerine
      1 tb Vinegar (if you used a sweet
           -orange or tangerine)
      1    Stick oleo
      2 tb Of flour
  Tried out the "White Trash Cookbook" last night and whipped up this black
  bean soup. In spite of the fact that I forgot to finish it with the browned
  flour and butter, it turned out pretty darn good, if a tad bland. (I did
  cheat and use real butter instead of oleo.) Here's the recipe. Never having
  had black bean soup before, let alone making it, I'm not sure what would be
  kosher to liven it up a bit. Anyone have any tips? I served it with
  cornbread and a plate of sliced home grown tomatoes. BTW, the recipe is
  transcribed exactly as it appears in the book to give a taste of Mickler's
  writing style. Pretty neat stuff, though I'm not sure if I'm ready for the
  cold collard sandwich yet...
  Salt and pepper to taste
  Put your beans in a soup pot and cover with water. Boil, take off the fire
  and let sit until cool. Cook onions and bell peppers in 1/2 the oleo until
  limp. Add them and the ham hocks and orange to the cooled beans; cover
  charitably with water. Simmer until beans is soft (1 to 2 hours). Fish out
  the orange right now, before it gets tore up. With the rest of the oleo,
  brown the flour in a black frying pan, then stir it into the beans. Brenda
  says: "Make sure you got a soup, now. If you need to add some more water,
  do it."
  From "White Trash Cooking", Ernest Matthew Mickler. Ten Speed Press, 1986.
  ISBN 0-89815-189-9.
      Title: Brittany Mixed Fish Soup
 Categories: Soups, Potatoes, Garlic
   Servings:  6
      3 lb Mixed Fish, Cleaned *
      2 x  Large Onions, Peeled **
           Large Clove Garlic, Crushed
      3 tb Butter Or Margarine
      6 x  Med Potato, Peeled, In 1/4's
     10 c  Water
      2 x  Medium Bay Leaves
      1 ts Dried Thyme
    1/2 ts Dried Marjorin
      4 x  Sprigs Parsley
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
           Crusty French Bread
  * Flounder, mackerel, cod, or haddock ** Sliced thin.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Cut fish into chunks of equal size. Saute onions and garlic in heated
  butter or margarine in a large kettle until tender. Add potatoes, water,
  bay leaves, thyme, marjoram, parsley, salt and pepper. Bring to a boil. Add
  prepared fish and lower heat to moderate. Cook, covered, about 25 minutes,
  until fish and potatoes are tender. Remove and discard bay leaves. Put
  slices of bread in wide soup plates. Ladle broth over bread. Serve fish and
  potatoes separately on a platter.
      Title: Broccoli Apple Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      1 tb Olive Oil
      2 c  Fresh Broccoli Stalks
           - (peeled and diced)
      2 tb Fresh Thyme, finely chopped
           -OR-
    3/4 ts -Dried Thyme, crushed
      1 c  Onion; thinly sliced
      1 c  Red Cooking Apple
           - peeled and diced
    1/2 c  Celery, diced
      4 c  Lo-Salt, Lo-Fat Chick. stock
    1/4 ts Ground white pepper
    1/4 c  NonFat Yogurt
      2 tb Minced Parsley
  Heat oil in large pot with lid.  Add broccoli, thyme, onion, apple and
  celery.  Cover and cook over low heat 10 minutes.  Add chicken stock and
  pepper.  Cook 30 minutes more.  Remove from heat and cool slightly. Puree 1
  cup at a time in blender or food processor. Serve hot or chilled, garnished
  with a dollop of yogurt and sprinkling of minced parsley.
  Makes 5 1/2 cups.
  From: Edward Pallan
      Title: Broccoli and Swiss Cheese Soup
 Categories: Soups, Cheese
   Servings:  6
  2 1/2 lb Broccoli, cut into 1-inch
           -florets
      1 c  Chopped leeks or green onion
      4 ts Butter
      4 tb Flour
      4 c  Chicken stock
      1 c  Light cream
      1 c  Shredded Swiss cheese
    1/8 ts Nutmeg
  Salt and pepper to taste
  Cut enough florets to measure 2 cups.  Cut rest of broccoli into 1-
  in.pieces.  Cook florets and broccoli pieces, separately, in lightly salted
  water until just tender.  (Florets will be done first). Immediately rinse
  in cold water.  Drain.  Set florets aside until serving time. In a large
  saucepan saute leeks in butter until tender; usually about 4 minutes.
  Sprinkle in flour and cook one more minute, stirring with whisk. Remove
  from heat and stir in broth.  Return to heat and simmer for 5 minutes,
  stirring occasionally.  Add broccoli pieces to broth and puree in blender
  in batches, until smooth.  Just before serving, blend in cream and Swiss
  cheese.  Simmer gently until cheese melts. Add nutmeg, salt, pepper. Add
  reserved florets and heat through.
  Posted by Michael Grosz. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Broccoli Bud Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  4
      1 sm Carrot, sliced
      1    Stalk celery, sliced
      1 sm Onion, chopped
      1    Garlic clove, minced
    1/2 ts Marjoram
    1/4 ts Basil
    1/2 c  Chicken or vegetable stock
      2 c  Skim milk
      2 c  Coarsely chopped broccoli
    1/2 c  Cooked macaroni
      1 ds Nutmeg
      1 c  Low-fat yogurt (garnish)
  Servings:  4
  Place carrots, celery, onions, garlic, marjoram, basil and stock in medium
  size saucepan.  Bring to boil, reduce heat, cover, simmer for 10 minutes.
  Add the milk and broccoli.  Return to boil, reduce heat, cover and simmer
  for 5 to 7 minutes or until broccoli is tender.  Add macaroni and nutmeg
  and heat through.
  Remove some broccoli buds from the soup and set aside.  Place remaining
  soup in a blender and process on low speed, until the soup is smooth.
  Return soup to pot with reserved broccoli buds and heat through.
  Posted by Sheila Exner. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Broccoli Crevette Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
           Base:
      2 tb Vegetable oil or olive oil
      2 tb Butter
      1 c  Cooked and peeled popcorn
           -shrimp
      1 c  Chopped sea clams, drained
           -well
      2 ts Fresh chopped garlic
  1 1/2 tb Clam base
    1/3 c  Flour
  2 1/2 c  Ground broccoli including
           -stock and florets
      1 qt Whole milk (with vitamin D)
      1 c  Heavy whipping cream
      1 tb Dry dill
      1 tb Dry basil
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 tb Ground white pepper (or to
           -taste)
  Mix and saute the following 6 ingredients, 5 to 10 minutes:
  Then add 1/3 cup all-purpose flour and brown about 5 minutes over medium
  heat. Add in the following 7 ingredients and bring to boil slowly:
      Title: Broccoli Cheese Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables, Cheese
   Servings:  6
      1 c  Water
      1    (10-ounce)package frozen
           -chopped broccoli
      2 c  Milk
      2 c  Cubed Velveeta cheese
    1/2 c  All-purpose flour
      1 c  Half-and-half
      2    Chicken bouillon cubes
  In large saucepan, cook broccoli in 1 cup water; do not drain.  Put milk,
  cheese, and flour into blender; cover and blend until smooth.  Add
  half-and-half and bouillon cubes.  Cook, stirring, over medium heat until
  hot and mixture thickens.  Mixture will thicken more upon sitting.
  Makes 6 cups.
  NOTE:  I like to cut down a bit on the richness this soup has by using 2%
  milk; and Velveeta "Light" cheese.  Keep stirring-as it may burn.  Do not
  cook for more than 25 minutes as it becomes a great cheese sauce after a
  while-good for pouring over potatoes-but not good if you want soup.
  Posted by Pamela Jacobs. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Broccoli Garden Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables, Garlic
   Servings: 11
      3 c  Broccoli, Chopped
      6 c  Yams, Peeled And Chopped
      6 c  Defatted Chicken Broth
      2    Medium Onions, Chopped
      4    Cloves Garlic, Minced
      1 tb Olive Oil
      1 c  Celery Tops, Chopped
    1/4 ts Ground Allspice (Optional)
      2 c  Watercress, Chopped
           Ground Pepper To Taste
  Simmer the yams, covered, in two cups chicken broth 10 minutes or until
  soft; puree in food mill or processor. Set aside. In large pot with cover,
  saute the onions and garlic in oil until the onions are translucent and
  starting to brown. Add celery. Saute a few minutes, Add broccoli and
  remaining chicken broth.  Simmer, covered, eight minutes or until tender
  crisp.  Stir in puree; add seasonings. Serve immediately or serve chilled.
  Top each portion with 1/4 cup chopped watercress. Makes 11 one-cup
  servings.  Nutrient content per serving: 225 calories, 2 grams fat, 4 grams
  protein, 50 grams carbohydrate, .6 milligrams cholesterol, 509 milligrams
  sodium, .4 milligrams beta carotene. SOURCE: Tyler Morning Telegraph, Wed.,
  Feb. 27 1991
      Title: Broccoli Onion Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      1 md Sweet onion, chopped
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      2 pk (8 ounces each) cream
           -cheese, cubed
      2 c  Milk
      2    Chicken bullion cubes
  1 1/2 c  Boiling water
      1 pk Frozen chopped broccoli (10
           -ounces) cooked and drained
      1 ts Lemon juice
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
  Saute onion in butter until tender.  Add cream cheese and milk; stir over
  low heat until cheese is melted.  Dissolve bullion in boiling water; add to
  cream cheese mixture.  Stir in broccoli, lemon juice, salt and pepper. Heat
  thoroughly.
  Source: Rock Springs Sweet Onion Festival Cook Book 1992
      Title: Broccoli Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      3 tb Butter
      1    Onion, sliced
      1    Carrot, sliced
      1    Clove garlic, minced
      4 c  Chicken stock
      1 lb Broccoli, chopped
      1 c  Light cream
  This broccoli soup is enhanced with the flavors of carrot, onion, and
  garlic.  It's also delicious served hot.
  salt and pepper chopped fresh parsley
  In saucepan, melt butter over medium heat; cook onion, carrot and garlic
  for 5 minutes.  Stir in stock and bring to bil; add broccoli.  Reduce heat
  and simmer, covered, until broccoli is tender, 15-20 minutes.  In blender
  or food processor, puree soup in batches and transfer to glass bowl. Stir
  in cream; season with salt and pepper to taste.  Cover and refrigerate for
  at least 4 hours oruntil chilled.  Sprinkle with parsley just before
  serving.  Makes 6 servings.
  Origin:  Canadian Living cooking collection:  Appetizers and Soups Shared
  by:  Sharon Stevens.
  THE HOMESTEAD, NASHVILLE TN HST V32 B (615)385-9421
      Title: Broccoli Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      1 bn Broccoli (1 1/4 to 1 1/2
           -Lbs)
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      1 md Onion, chopped
      3 ts All-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Ground black pepper
  1 1/2 c  Chicken broth
      1 c  Milk
  Cheddar cheese, shredded (optional)
  Trim the broccoli and cut into flowerets and stem pieces.  In a large
  saucepan, over high heat, bring 1 inch of water to a boil.  Add broccoli
  and cook about 15 minutes, or until broccoli is tender; set aside. (OR:
  Microwave for 8 minutes on High and let stand for 4 minutes.) Melt the
  butter in a large saucepan, over medium heat; add onion and cook for 3
  minutes, or until translucent.  Add, flour, salt, and pepper; cook,
  stirring constantly, about 2 minutes.  Add the broth gradually, stirring
  constantly, until blended.  Stir in the broccoli, reserving 1 cup flowerets
  for garnish.  Pour in batches into food processor or blender and puree
  until smooth.  Return to saucepan; add milk and cook, over medium heat,
  until bubbly.  Ladle into warm bowls. Garnish with reserved broccoli
  flowerets and cheese, if desired.
  Makes 4 to 6 servings.
  [Woman's Day  MEALS IN MINUTES  August 1985]
      Title: Broccoli Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      2 bn Broccoli, stripped, cut up
           -(reserve 3 cups florets)
      3 tb Margarine
      3 tb Flour
      5 c  Chicken broth
           Black pepper
      1 c  Milk
  In Dutch oven, melt margarine over medium heat.  Stir in flour.  When
  smooth, add broth and bring to a boil over high heat, stirring frequently.
  Add broccoli, cook until tender.  Blend 2 cups at a time and pour into a
  large saucepan.  Add reserved florets and simmer until tender.  Stir in
  milk and heat through. Add several grinds of black pepper to taste.
      Title: Broccoli Soup
 Categories: Vegetables, Soups
   Servings:  8
      1 lb Broccoli (small head)
      1 cn Chicken broth (about 14 oz)
    1/3 c  Chopped onions
      1 c  Chopped cauliflower
  1 1/4 c  Milk
      3 tb All-purpose flour
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Freshly-ground white pepper
    1/4 c  Half-and-half
  Wash and trim leaves from broccoli.  Cut of florets and set aside. Use
  vegetable peeler to pare broccoli stalks.  Cut stalks lengthwise in halves
  or quarters, then cut crosswise into 2-inch pieces. simmer over low heat,
  covered, until almost tender, about 8 minutes.  Add broccoli florets. Cook,
  covered, until just tender.  Drain.  In same saucepan, bring chicken broth
  and onion to a boil over high heat.  Add cauliflower; reduce heat to low,
  and simmer, covered, for 10 minutes or until tender. Drain through strainer
  over small bowl to save stock.  Combine 1/4 cup of the milk, the flour, 1/2
  tsp salt and the pepper; stir until smooth. Stir milk mixture into the
  broth.  Bring to a boil over medium heat and cook until sauce is thickened,
  stirring constantly.  Remove from heat. Place cauliflower mixture, 1/2 cup
  of the sauce, and the half-and-half in a blender container. Cover and blend
  until smooth.  Pour cauliflower soup into small saucepan; keep warm over
  very low heat.  (OR pour into a container and refrigerate until ready to
  serve.) Place rest of sauce, 1 cup milk, the broccoli, and 1/4 teaspoon
  salt in the blender.  Cover and blend until smooth, stopping to scrape
  container often.  Pour broccoli soup into a saucepan and heat through. (OR
  pour into a container and refrigerate.) (Reheat both cold soups when ready
  to serve.) To serve, ladle broccoli soup into warm serving bowls. Drizzle 2
  to 3 tablespoons of cauliflower soup on top of each.
  Makes 8 (2/3 cup) servings.
  [McCall's COOKING SCHOOL No 12]
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Broccoli Vichyssoise
 Categories: Soups, Potatoes
   Servings:  8
      4    Medium-size leeks (about 1
           -pound)
      2 ts Non-diet, tub style
           -margarine
  3 1/4 c  Chicken stock or broth
           -(defatted), divided
  3 1/2 c  Peeled and diced potatoes
           -(1-1/2 pounds)
      3 c  Broccoli florets
    1/4 ts White pepper
  1 1/2 c  Whole milk
           Salt to taste
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1    To 2 tsp. finely chopped
           -chives for garnish
           -(optional)
  Thoroughly was leek leaves, which tend to collect sand. Trim off and
  discard root ends and all but about 1 inch of green tops.  Peel off and
  discard 1 to 2 layers of tough outer leaves.  Cut leeks crosswise into 1/2
  inch pieces.
  In Dutch oven or large saucepan, melt margarine over medium heat.  Add
  leeks and 3 Tbsp. of stock; cook, stirring frequently, about 10 minutes,
  until leeks are tender but not browned. If liquid begins to evaporate,
  lower heat slightly and add more stock.  Add remaining chicken stock,
  potatoes, broccoli and pepper.
  Lower heat, cover, and simmer about 11-14 minutes, until potatoes and
  broccoli are tender.  Remove pot from heat and let cool slightly.  In
  batches, puree mixture in a blender on low speed 10 seconds.  Then raise
  speed to high and puree until completely smooth.  Return puree to pot in
  which it was cooked.  Add milk; stir to mix well.  Simmer an additional 4 -
  5 minutes.  Refrigerate about 5 hours.  Before serving stir in lemon juice
  and add salt, if desired.  Garnish with chopped chives.
  Yield:  8 servings, each containing 163 calories, 6.7 grams protein; 2.8
  grams fat; and 5 milligrams cholesterol.
  From: Skinny Soups by Ruth Glick and Nancy Baggett Asbury Park Press
  08/26/92 Shared By: Pat Stockett
      Title: Broccoli-Cheese-Mustard Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
  1 1/4 lb Broccoli, trimmed
      2 md Onions, sliced
      5 tb Butter, divided
      7 c  Chicken broth, divided
      1 ts Dried oregano leaves,
           -crumbled
    1/4 c  Flour
      3 tb Dijon-style mustard
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1 c  Milk
      2 c  Shredded sharp cheddar
           -cheese
  1.   Cut flowerets off broccoli and divide into small sections. simmer in
  lightly salted utter 2 to 3 minutes; drain and set aside.
  2.   Peel stalks and cut into small pieces; cook with onions in 3 Tbsp
  butter in large saucepan about 5 minutes.
  3.   Add 3 cup broth and oregano; simmer 20 to 30 minutes or until
  vegetables are fork tender.
  4.   Process in blender or food processor until smooth.
  5.   Melt remaining 2 Tbsp butter in saucepan.  Stir in flour and cook
  until bubbly.  Stir in mustard and pepper.
  6.   Add processed mixture and remaining 4 cup broth; heat to simmering,
  stirring.
  7.   Slowly add milk and cheese, stirring constantly.
  8.   Add broccoli flowerets; heat and serve.
      Title: Broccoli-Cauliflower Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
    3/4 lb Fresh chopped broccoli
    3/4 lb Fresh chopped cauliflower
    1/3 c  Chopped onion
  1 1/2 c  Bouillon
    1/4 ts Ground mace
      3 c  Skim milk
      1 tb Cornstarch
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/3 c  Shredded Swiss cheese
     Cook broccoli, cauliflower, and onion in the bouillon until tender. Pour
  half the vegetables, along with half the bouillon, into a blender and blend
  until smooth.  Remove, and blend the remaining vegetable mixture, along
  with the mace.  Return all of blended mixture to pan.
     Blend 1/2 c of milk (1/6 total) with cornstarch and add to vegetables.
  Add remaining milk, salt, and pepper, and cook until thick and hot,
  stirring occasionally. Blend in cheese and stir until melted. (71 calories
  per serv)
  Makes 8 servings
      Title: Broccoli/mushroom Chowder
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  8
      2 lb Fresh broccoli
      8 oz Fresh mushrooms
      1 c  Butter
      1 c  Flour
      4 c  Chicken broth
      4 c  Half and half
      1 ts Salt (optional)
    1/4 ts White pepper
      1 ts Tarragon leaves, crushed.
  This recipe was submitted to Country Woman by Lorrie Arthur and it is
  delicious.
  Clean and cut broccoli into 1/2 inch pieces.  Steam in 1/2 cup water until
  tender/crisp (I nuke them for 3 to 4 minutes) do not drain.  Set aside.
  Clean and slice mushrooms.  In a large pan over medium heat, melt butter;
  add flour to make a roux.  Cook, stirring constantly, for 2 to 4 minutes;
  do not let brown.  Stir in chicken broth; bring just to a boil. Turn heat
  to low; add broccoli, mushrooms, half-and-half and seasonings. Heat through
  but do not boil.
  Makes 8 servings.
  NOTE:  This recipe works well cut in half.  Last night I made it using
  broccoli and mushrooms that had been taking up space in the reefer for
  awhile and were rubbery.  Still tasted great.  I usually serve with fresh
  bread (made of course in my bread machine.)
  Posted by Dianna Marquardsen. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Brown Flour Soup (Braune Mehlsuppe)
 Categories: Penn-dutch, Soups
   Servings:  1
    1/4 c  Butter
     10 tb Flour
      5 c  Soup Stock
           Salt & Pepper
           Cheese, Grated
  Melt the butter and stir in flour, add the stock slowly to prevent lumping.
  When well-blended, add seasonings to taste. Cover pot and cook slowly for 2
  hours. When serving, sprinkle each bowlful with grated cheese. Source:
  Pennsylvania Dutch Cook Book - Fine Old Recipes, Culinary Arts Press, 1936.
      Title: Brown Onion Soup
 Categories: Soups, Osg
   Servings:  2
      1 ea Onion; large
      1 pt Broth
           Or
      1 pt Water; boiling - & 2 beef
           -extract cubes
      2    Bread; slices
           Cheese; grated
  Brown 1 large onion in butter in skillet, add 1 pint broth or 1 pint
  boiling water and 2 beef extract cubes. Simmer until onion is tender. Toast
  2 slices bread, sprinkle with grated cheese; place on top of soup in
  casserole, place in oven to melt cheese. Serves 2. Source: Cora T. Ruffle,
  Jerusalen Grange, Adams County, OH
      Title: Brown Veal Stock
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  1
      5 lb Veal Bones
      6 qt Water
  1 1/4 lb Carrots Sliced
      3 md Onions Quartered
      5    Stalks Celery Cut Into
           Pieces
      4 cl Garlic Halved
      5    Bay Leaves Crumbled
      1 lg Bunch Fresh Parsley
  Place Veal Bones in A Shallow Roasting Pan.  Bake At 450 F. For 45Minutes
  OR Until Bones Are Well Browned, Turning Occasionally. Combine Browned
  Bones & Water in A 14 Quart Stockpot. Cover; Cook Over Medium Low Heat For
  1 1/2 Hours.  Uncover & Simmer 4 Hours, Skimming Surface Frequently With
  Metal Spoon To Remove Scum.  Add Carrots, Onions, Celery, Garlic & Bay
  Leaves; Arrange Parsley On Top. Reduce Heat To Low. Cook, Uncovered 6
  Hours.  Remove From Heat & Cool. Strain Stock Through A Paper Towel Lined
  Sieve Into A Large Bowl. Discard Bones & Vegetables. Cover & Chill Stock.
  Skim Solidified Fat From Stock & Discard. (Fat 0. Chol. O.)
      Title: Brunoise
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  1
      4 c  Beef bouillion
      2    Egg whites and shells,
           -crushed
      1 c  Water
      2 tb Butter
      1    Carrot, finely diced
      1    Celery rib, finely diced
      2    Scallions, finely sliced
           -into rings
           Salt and black pepper (to
           -taste)
  Pour the bouillion into a large pot.  Be careful not to allow any sediment
  to be added.  Lightly beat the egg whites with the water and add this to
  the bouillion with the crushed egg shells.  Bring the stock to a boil and
  simmer for 1 hour.  Skim the foam from the top and strain the stock through
  a sieve that has been lined with several layers of cheese cloth. You now
  have a clear consomme. Melt the butter in a small saucepan and add the
  finely diced and sliced vegetables. Spoon 2 or 3 Tbsp. of the consomme over
  the vegetables, cover the pan, and braise the vegetables slowly for about
  10 minutes or until tender. To serve, reheat the consomme and garnish it
  with the braised vegetables. Season to taste with salt and black pepper.
  Serves 6 From: Coast Magazine's Jersey Shore Almanac Shared By: Pat
  Stockett
      Title: Brunswick Stew
 Categories: Chicken, Stew, Soups, Pork, Beef
   Servings:  6
      1    (5 lb) stewing hen
      1    (3 lb) chuck roast, cooked,
           -cooled, and shredded
      1    (3 lb) pork loin roast,
           -cooked, cooled, and
           -shredded
      5 c  Beef broth
      3    (16 oz) cans whole tomatoes,
           -undrained and chopped
      2    (12 oz) cans whole kernel
           -corn
      1    (15 oz) can tomato sauce
      3 lg Onions, chopped
  1 1/2 c  Catsup
    1/2 c  Vinegar
    1/3 c  Worcestershire sauce
      1 tb Salt
      2 ts Pepper
      2 ts Hot sauce
      1 ts Garlic salt
      1 ts Lemon juice
  Place chicken in a large Dutch oven; add water to cover.  Bring to a boil;
  cover and simmer for 2 hours or until chicken is tender.  Remove chicken
  from broth; cool.  Bone chicken, and grind meat using coarse blade of meat
  grinder.
  Transfer 5 cups chicken broth to a large stockpot; reserve remaining broth
  for use in other recipes.  Add ground chicken and remaining ingredients,
  stirring until well blended.  Bring to a boil.  Reduce heat; simmer,
  uncovered, for 3 hours.
  Ladle stew into individual bowls, and serve hot.
  Yield: about 1 1/2 gallons.
  Posted by Derek Maddox. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Buddhist Monk's Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetarian, Buddhist
   Servings:  8
      1 qt Water
      1 lb Pumkin or butternut squash
           - peeled & cut into
           - large chunks
      1    Sweet potato
           - peeled & chunked
    1/2 c  Raw peanuts; shelled and
           - skinned. Soaked 30 min,
           - drained & roughly chopped
    1/3 c  Dried mung beans
           - soaked 30 min and drained
      3 tb Vegetable oil
      1    Square of bean curd
      1 qt Coconut milk
    1/2 oz Cellophane noodles,
           - soaked 20 min, drained
           - & cut into 1 inch sections
  ~- Boil the water and drop in the pumpkin/squash, sweet potato, peanuts and
  mung beans.  Cook on medium heat for 35 min.  While making the soup,
  prepare the bean curd by heating the oil in a frying pan and cooking the
  curd until light brown on both sides.  Slice lengthwise into 1/4 inch
  strips and set aside. After the 35 min, check the mung beans for softness.
  If they're soft, add the coconut milk and a touch of salt. Bring up to a
  boil and throw in the cellophane noodles and fried bean curd. Serve with
  rice and Buddhist Nuoc Leo. From: timi@chloroplast.Berkeley.EDU ( Tim
  Ikeda)
      Title: Bulgur Saute
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables, Low-cal
   Servings:  6
      1 c  BULGUR WHEAT
    1/3 c  CHOPPED ONION
    1/3 c  CHOPPED CELERY
      2 tb BUTTER
      2 c  WATER
  2 1/2 ts BOUILLON GRANULES
      2 tb PARSLEY
  IN A MEDIUM SKILLET COOK BULGUR, ONION, AND CELERY IN BUTTER OVER LOW HEAT
  10 TO 15 MINUTES OR UNTIL ONION IS TENDER, STIRRING FREQUENTLY.  STIR IN
  WATER AND BEEF BOUILLON GRANULES.  BRING TO BOILING.  REDUCE HEAT; COVER
  AND SIMMER FOR 15 MINUTES OR TILL BULGUR IS DONE.  STIR IN PARSLEY.
  VARIATION:  PREPARE BULGUR SAUTE AS ABOVE, EXCEPT STIR 1 TO 2 TEASPOONS
  CURRY POWDER INTO THE BULGUR-VEGETABLE MIXTURE BEFORE THE FIRST COOKING
  STEP.  CONTINUE WITH RECIPE AS DIRECTED.  EACH SERVING: 141 CALORIES, 4 G
  PROTEIN, 4 G FAT.
      Title: Butterfly Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      1 c  Butterflies
      1 cn Soup, any kind
      3 c  Water
      1 pn Salt
      1 pn Pepper
      1 pn Sugar
      1 tb Lemon juice
  you mix the butterflies with the soup and water. You mix the salt and
  pepper with the sugar and a tablespoon of lemon juice. Throw it in a pot
  for 30 minutes. when you take it off the stove, serve it
  posted by Amy Struebing, age 5
      Title: Butternut Bisque
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings: 12
      1 tb Oil
      1 lg Spanish onion; sliced
      3 lg Carrots; sliced
      1 lg Butternut squash; peeled,
           - cut into 1-in chunks
      6 c  Chicken stock or broth
           Salt
           Freshly ground nutmeg
           Freshly ground pepper
           Snipped fresh chives
           - for garnish
  HEAT OIL IN 4-QUART POT. Add onions and carrots. Cook until onions are
  softened, about 5 minutes, stirring often. Add squash and 4 cups stock.
  Bring to boil. Simmer, covered, until vegetables are soft, about 20
  minutes. Strain solids from liquid, reserving both. Puree solids in
  processor or in batches in blender until completely smooth. Return to pot.
  Stir in liquid, remaining stock and water to thin soup. Soup should be
  thick. Season to taste with salt, nutmeg and pepper. Refrigerate up to 4
  days or freeze up to 3 months. Serve hot, garnished with chives.
  Makes 12 cups
  ABBY MANDEL - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
      Title: Cabbage Orzo and Sausage Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
    1/2 lb Turkey sausage
      1 tb Olive oil
      1    Onion,medium-size,chopped
      1    Carrot,lg,1/4" thick slices
      1    Garlic clove,finely chopped
      2 c  Water
 14 3/4 oz Chicken broth,reduced-sodium
     15 oz Plum tomatoes,in juice
      2 c  Shredded cabbage
      2 ts Dried leaf basil,crumbled
      1 ts Dried leaf thyme,crumbled
    1/2 c  Orzo
           Salt to taste
           Pepper to taste
  1. Brown sausage in oil in large nonstick saucepan over medium-high heat
  until browned but not cooked through. Remove sausage; cut into 16 pieces.
  2. Reduce heat to medium. Add onion, carrot and garlic to saucepan; saute 3
  minutes to soften. Gradually add water, broth, tomatoes, cabbage, basil and
  thyme, breaking up tomatoes. Simmer, covered, 15 minutes. Add orzo and
  sausage; simmer, covered, 10 minutes until sausage is cooked and orzo is
  tender. Season with salt and pepper.
      Title: Cabbage Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables, Vegetarian
   Servings:  6
      1 tb Oil
      2 md Onions; diced
      1    Small-to-med red cabbage
           - cored and shredded
  1 1/2 qt Chicken broth
      3 tb Wine vinegar
      1    Ham hock
           Salt and pepper to taste
           Sour cream
           Fresh dill
  IN A LARGE SOUP POT, heat the oil and cook the onions, stirring
  occasionally, until softened, about 10 minutes. Add the cabbage and
  continue to cook, stirring occasionally, about 20 minutes. Add the chicken
  broth, vinegar and ham hock. Cover and simmer the soup for 1 hour. Remove
  from heat, add salt and pepper as desired. Remove meat from ham hock and
  add back to soup. Serve with sour cream and chopped fresh dill.
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
      Title: Cabbage Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  1
    1/2 ts Garlic Salt -or-
    3/4 ts Garlic Powder
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2    Celery Stalks, Chopped
     16 oz Kidney Beans, drained
      1    Cabbage Head, broken up
     28 oz Tomatoes with Juice
     28 oz Water
      4    Boullion or Vegetarian Cube
           Chopped Parsley
  Combine all in a crock pot on low and cook 8 to 10 hours. If using a
  kettle, bring to a boil partially covered and cook 1 hour or simmer all
  day.
  Source: "The Yankee Kitchen" 04/06/93 [#1] Candice
      Title: Cabbage Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      1 md Head cabbage
      2 lg Onions
      1 lg Potato, pared
      3 c  Skim milk
      2 tb Yogurt
    1/2 ts Dill weed
    1/2 ts Caraway seeds
  Freshly ground black pepper
  Shred the cabbage.  Thinly slice the onions and the potato.  Place the
  vegetables in a heavy saucepan with a small amount of water.  Cover and
  cook slowly until tender.
  Add milk, yogurt, dill, caraway and pepper.  Blend in a blender.  Return to
  pan, cook for 15 minutes longer.  Serve hot.  Sprinkle additional dill when
  soup is served.
  Found in: The American Heart Association Cookbook
  Posted by Scott Ward. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Cajun Black Bean Soup
 Categories: Soups, Beans
   Servings:  8
           Jim Vorheis
      1 lb Dry black beans
  1 1/2 lb Smoked ham hock
  1 1/2 qt Water
    1/4 c  Dried minced onion
      2 tb Paprika
    1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
    1/4 c  Minced green bell pepper
      2 tb Chili powder
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Ground cumin
  In large kettle, combine beans, ham hock and water.  Heat to boiling,
  reduce heat and simmer covered for 2 to 2 1/2 hours. Stir frequently and
  add more water if necessary to cover beans. To test for doneness, remove a
  few beans from kettle with a slotted spoon and blow on them. Skins will pop
  open when beans are cooked. Remove ham hock. Chop meat from bones,
  discarding fat and bones. Add meat to soup. Stir in minced onion, paprika,
  cayenne pepper, green pepper, chili powder, salt and cumin. cover and
  simmer for 1 hour.  Remove 3/4 of soup and puree in blender or processor.
  Stir puree back into remaining beans.  If necessary, add water or chicken
  broth to obtain desired thickness. Serve with shredded Monterey Jack
  cheese, sour cream, minced chives or chopped eggs.
  Creme de Colorado Cookbook (1987) From the collection of Jim Vorheis
      Title: Calabrian Asparagus Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetarian
   Servings:  6
      2    Clove garlic - minced
      2 tb Olive oil - extra-virgin
      2 lb Asparagus - trimmed and cut
           -into 1-inch pieces
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Freshly ground pepper
      4 c  Vegetable Broth - (see
           -recipe) OR canned low-
           Sodium chicken broth
      4    Eggs
    1/2 c  Parmesan - fresly grated OR
           -Pecorino, PLUS extra
           For serving
      6 sl Italian bread - toasted
  Number of Servings:   6
  1.  In a large saucepan, cook the garlic in the olive oil over moderate
  heat, stirring constantly, until golden, about 3 minutes.  Add the
  asparagus and cook until bright green, about 5 minutes.  Add the salt,
  pepper and Vegetable Broth and bring to a boil.  Reduce the heat to
  moderately low and simmer until the asparagus are tender, about 15 minutes.
  2.  In a small bowl, beat the eggs with 1/2 cup of the cheese. Reduce the
  heat to low so that the soup is no longer simmering, and very slowly ladle
  about 2 cups of the hot soup into the beaten eggs, whisking constantly.
  Once incorporated, gradually stir the egg mixture into the soup in the
  saucepan.  Increase the heat to moderately low and cook the soup, whisking
  constantly, until it just thickens, about 8 minutes.  Do not allow the soup
  to boil or the eggs will curdle.  Remove from the heat.
  3.  Place one slide of toasted bread into each soup bowl.  Ladle the hot
  soup on top and serve with additional grated cheese.
  Serves 6.
  NOTE:  Thickening soup with bread is typical of rustic Italian cooking, in
  which nothing goes to waste.  The toasts may be made from day-old or
  slightly stale bread.  Serve with a Sauvignon Blanc.
  Posted by Michelle Bass. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Canadian Cheese Soup
 Categories: Soups, Cheese
   Servings:  4
      1 lg Potato, diced
      2 c  Chicken broth
      1 lg Onion, diced
      1 c  Grated sharp
    1/4 c  Celery, diced
           Chedder cheese
    1/4 c  Carrots, diced
    1/2 c  Breakfast cream
      1 c  Water
           Salt and Tabasco to taste
      2 tb Parsley, chopped
  In a 1 1/2 qt. covered saucepan, simmer vegetables in water until tender,
  about 15 to 20 minutes.  Add remaining ingredients except parsley. Heat, do
  not boil, and serve garnished with parsley.
  Makes 4 to 6 servings.
  Recipe by: Mrs. Fred Parnell Found in: River Road Recipes II
  Posted by Scott Ward. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Canadian Corn Chowder
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  2
      2 ts Margarine
      2 oz Diced Canadian -style bacon
    1/2 c  Diced onion
      2 tb Each diced celery and
           -shredded carrot
  1 1/2 ts All-purpose flour
    1/2 c  Skim milk
      3 oz Pared potatoes, diced
    1/2 ts Salt
           Dash      each marjoram
           -leaves and pepper
    1/2 c  Frozen or drained canned
           -whole kernel corn
           Water if required
  In 2-quart saucepan heat margarine until bubbly and hot; add bacon, onion,
  celery and carrot; saute until onion is translucent.  Sprinkle with flour
  and stir quickly to combine; cook, stirring, for 1 minute. Stirring
  constantly, gradually add milk and bring to a boil.  Reduce heat and add
  potato and seasonings; cover and let simmer until potato is tender, about
  15 minutes.  Stir in corn and let simmer until heated through. If mixture
  gets too thick, add water, 1 tablespoon at a time, until desired
  consistency.
  Makes 2 servings
  [WEIGHT WATCHERS NEW INTERNATIONAL COOKBOOK]
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Canadian Cheddar Soup
 Categories: Cheese, Soups
   Servings:  6
      2 tb (25 mL) Butter
    1/4 c  (50 mL) Onion, finely
           -chopped
    1/4 c  (50 mL) Carrot, finely
           -chopped
    1/4 c  (50 mL) Celery, finely
           -chopped
      2 tb (25 mL) Flour
    1/4 ts (1 mL) Dry Mustard
      1 pn Nutmeg
      1 pn Pepper
      3 c  (750 mL) Chicken Stock
  1 1/2 c  (375 mL) Light Cream
      1 c  (250 mL) Milk or Beer
  1 1/2 c  (375 mL) Cheddar Cheese,
           -shredded
      1 ds Worcestershire Sauce
  Salt
  In a heavy saucepan, melt butter, cook onion, carrot, and celery for about
  5 minutes or until tender; do not brown.  Stir in flour, mustard, nutmeg
  and pepper; cook for 2 to 3 minutes.
  Stir in chicken stock; simmer for about 20 minutes or until vegetables are
  tender.  If desired, puree until smooth in blender or food processor.
  (Note:  this is where the hand blender comes in REAL handy-- Grin!)
  Add cream and milk or beer and bring almost to a boil.  Add cheese; heat
  until just melted, stirring constantly.  Add Worcestershire and a little
  salt.
  Makes 6 servings.
  Posted by Marge Clark. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Canadian Pea Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      1 lb Dried yellow peas
      1 tb Butter
      1 lg Onion, chopped
      1 tb Salt
      1 lb Salt pork
     12 c  Water
      1 ts Dried savory
           Pepper to taste
  Place peas in a colander; rinse under running water. Put peas in a large
  stockpot; cover with cold water and allow to soak overnight. (If using
  split peas, there's no need to presoak.) Drain.
  In a large pot, melt the butter and saute onion until softened, about 2
  minutes. Add peas, salt, salt pork, water and savory. Bring to boil; cover
  and simmer for about 1 1/2 hours or unntil salt pork is tender. Remove
  pork; chop and turn to soup.
  Continue simmering soup until peas are tender, about 30 minutes longer.
  Remove 2 cups peas from soup and process in food processor; stir back into
  the soup.
  Adjust seasoning and serve.
  Serves 6.
      Title: Canadian Yellow Split-Pea Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  4
  4 1/2 oz Sorted uncooked yellow split
           -peas
      1 qt Water
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Vegetable oil
      2 oz Diced Canadian-style bacon
      1 c  Each chopped onions and
           -sliced carrots
    1/4 ts Each crumbled sage leaves
           -and ground allspice
           Dash      white pepper, or
           -to taste
      2 tb Chopped fresh parsley
  Rinse peas.  In a 4-quart saucepan, combine peas, water and salt. Bring to
  a boil; remove from heat and let soak for 1 hour.  In a 10-inch nonstick
  skillet heat oil over medium-high heat; add bacon and cook, stirring
  frequently, until browned.  Stir in onions and carrots and cook, stirring
  occasionally, until onions are translucent; add to peas in saucepan and
  stir to combine.  Add remaining ingredients except parsley and bring to a
  boil.  Reduce heat to low, cover, and let simmer, stirring occasionally to
  prevent mixture from sticking to bottom of pan, until peas are softened and
  mixture thickens, about 45 minutes.  If soup becomes too thick, add up to
  an additional cup of water.  Serve each portion sprinkled with fresh
  parsley.
  Makes 4 servings.
  [WEIGHT WATCHERS NEW INTERNATIONAL COOKBOOK]
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Cantaloupe Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
      4    Ripe small cantaloupes *
      6 oz Orange juice concentrate
      1 c  Honey **
    1/2 ts Cinnamon (more to taste)
      1 c  Whipping cream
    1/2 c  Calvados
           Mint sprigs (garnish)
  *Note: Cantaloupes should be peeled, seeded, and cut into 1-inch chunks. **
  Amount of honey may be decreased if cantaloupes are very sweet.
  Puree cantaloupe in blender or processor until smooth.  Stir in remaining
  ingredients except mint and mix well.  Chill thoroughly.  Serve in chilled
  stemmed glasses or glass bowls and garnish with mint sprigs.
  Makes 8 to 10 servings.
  Source: The Cattle Restaurant - Leicester, Massachusetts Favorite
  Restaurant Recipes - ISBN: 0-89535-100-5
      Title: Cantaloupe Soup (Sopa De Melon Escribe)
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
    1/2 c  Half and half
      1 c  Cooked, peeled and diced
           -potato
      3 c  Peeled and diced cantaloupe
    1/4 c  Dry sherry
      1 pn Of salt
  Keywords: soup
  Place the half and half, potato, and cantaloupe in the blender. Blend to a
  smooth puree.  Stir in sherry.  Season to taste.  Serve chilled. If
  desired, garnish with a sprinkle of nutmeg or lime slice.
  Serves 6.
  Posted by Bill McGimpsey. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Caramel Mountain Ranch Cold Strawberry Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      2 pt Strawberries, fresh (14 oz
           -frozen)
    1/2 c  Sugar
      2 c  Cream, heavy
      2 c  Milk
      4 oz Creme de Cassis Liqueur
  Cut stems off fresh berries or thaw frozen berries and rinse under cold
  water. Set 6 to 8 berries aside for garnish.
  In a food processor, puree the berries with the sugar and liqueur. let it
  sit overnight.
  Whip heavy cream until thickened, but not stiff. Fold together thickened
  cream, milk and berry mixture.
  Slice the remaining berries from the tip almost up to the stem for garnish.
  Ladle soup into chilled soup cups and hang strawberries on the side.
      Title: Caribbean Fish Chowder
 Categories: Fish, Soups
   Servings:  8
    1/4 lb Small shrimp
    1/2 lb Fish filets
    1/4 lb Clams
      3 c  Fish stock
      1 c  Clam juice
    1/2 c  Burgundy wine
      1 tb Corn oil
      3    Cloves garlic, crushed
      3    Stalks celery, diced
      1    Potato, peeled & diced
    1/3 c  Stewed, chopped tomatos
      1    Green Bell pepper, diced
    1/2 ts Basil
    1/2 ts Oregano
      2    Bay leaves
      1 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Celery seed
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
    1/2 ts Dried cilantro
  Salt & pepper to taste
  Many recipes come out of the Caribbean that people either like or hate on
  first taste.  This particular recipe is for a chowder that is excellent.
  Heat the oil in a large soup pot.  Saute' the onion and garlic until the
  onions are transluscent.  Add all of the other ingredients except the
  shrimp, clams and the fish.  Simmer for 1 hour or until the veggetables are
  tender.  Add the seafood and cook for 7 to 10 minutes at a low boil.
  NOTE:  I have added on occassion 1/4 cup rice to this recipe and it is good
  that way too.
  Serves 8 to 10.
  Posted by Penny Plant. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Carmel Mountain Ranch Cold Strawberry Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      2 pt Strawberries, fresh (14 oz
           -frozen)
    1/2 c  Sugar
      2 c  Cream, heavy
      2 c  Milk
  oz    Creme de Cassis liqueur (2 - 4 oz to taste)
  Cut stems off fresh berries or thaw frozen berries and rinse under cold
  water.  Set 6 to 8 berries aside for garnish.  In a food processor, puree
  the berries with the sugar and liqueur.  Let it sit overnight.
  Whip heavy cream until thickened, but not stiff.  Fold together thickened
  cream, milk and berry mixture.
  Slice the remaining berries from the tip almost up to the stem for garnish.
  Ladle soup into chilled soup cups and hang strawberries on the side.
  Makes 4 servings.
  Posted by Joan Johnson. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Carrot Soup
 Categories: Vegetables, Soups
   Servings:  8
      1 lb Carrots
      1 cn Chicken broth (about 14 oz)
    1/3 c  Chopped onion
      1 c  Chopped cauliflower
  1 3/4 c  Milk
      3 tb All-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Ground white pepper
    1/4 c  Half-and-half
  Wash, peel, and slice carots.  In a medium saucepan, bring 2 cups of water
  to a boil; add carrots.  Simmer over low heat, covered, for 15 minutes, or
  until tender.  Drain; set aside.  In the same saucepan, over high heat,
  bring chicken broth and onion to a boil.  Add cauliflower, reduce heat to
  low, and simmer, covered, for 10 minutes until tender. Drain through
  strainer over small saucepan to reserve broth.  In a measuring cup, combine
  1/4 cup of the milk, flour, salt, and pepper until smooth. Stir milk
  mixture into the reserved broth.  Over medium heat, bring to a boil; cook,
  stirring, until sauce is thickened.  Remove from heat. Place cauliflower
  mixture, 1/2 cup sauce, and the half-and-half in a blender container. Cover
  and blend until smooth, stopping to scrape container often. Pour
  cauliflower soup into small saucepan and keep warm over very low heat. (OR
  pour into a container and refrigerate until ready to serve.) Place the rest
  of the sauce in the blender.  Add the remaining 1 1/2 cups of milk and the
  carrots.  Cover and blend until smooth, stopping to scrape container often.
  Pour carrot soup into medium saucepan and heat through. (OR put into a
  container and refrigerate.) (Reheat cold soups when ready to serve.) To
  serve, ladle carrot soup into warm soup bowls. Drizzle 2 to 3 tablespoons
  of cauliflower soup on top of each.
  Makes 8 (2/3 cup) servings.
  [McCall's COOKING SCHOOL No 12] Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Carrot Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  4
      2 lb Carrots, peeled or scrubbed,
           -and chopped
      4 c  Chicken stock
      1 ts Salt
      1 md Potato, chopped
      1 c  Chopped onion
      4    Cloves garlic, chopped
    3/4 c  Chopped walnuts
      1 c  Yogurt
      1 ts Fresh ginger root, chopped
    1/4 c  Sherry
  Carrot Soup
  Place carrots, stock, salt and potato in a saucepan. Bring to a boil. Cover
  and simmer 12 to 15 minutes. Let cool to room temperature.
  Saute onions and garlic in a little butter or margarine, until the onions
  are clear.
  Puree everything in the food processor until smooth.  (I did it in two
  batches in the food processor.)
  Return to the kettle add the nuts, and then whisk in the yogurt. Heat very
  slowly. Add the sherry and heat a little longer.
  This is quite good.
  It makes about 4 hearty servings.
  Courtesy of Shareware RECIPE CLIPPER 1.0
      Title: Carrot Soup with Plums
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  6
      1 lb Small carrots
      1    To 2 small turnips
      6    Cups, good homemade chicken
           -stock
      1 tb Honey
      2 tb Dijon mustard
      2    To 4 tbsp chopped parsley
      1    To 2 tbsp chopped fresh
           -tarragon
      2    To 3 tbsp butter
      6    To 8 pitted plums
  Rind and juice of 2 oranges Salt and pepper
  Grate the rind from the oranges.  Squeeze 1/4 cup fresh orange juice. Clean
  the carrots and trim the stems.  If the carrots are small, cook whole; if
  they are larger, cut into any shape so they will cook in about 10 minutes.
  Peel the turnips and cut into 1/2 inch pieces.  In a saucepan, cook the
  vegetables in the orange juice on slow heat until tender. Add the chicken
  stock and let the vegetables steep on a slow flame for another 10 to 15
  minutes.  Remove to a blender and puree until smooth; correct the
  seasonings.  Make a compound butter by combining the orange rind, honey,
  mustard and herbs with softened butter.  Halve the plums and then slice
  each half into thin slices that can be fanned out. Ladle the soup into
  bowls; garnish with a piece of the compound butter and the plums.
  Posted by Sharon Stevens. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Carrot Soup
 Categories: Soups, 1941
   Servings:  8
      6    Carrots
      3 md Potatoes, sliced
      1 md Onion, sliced
      2 qt Water
      4 sl Bacon
      2 tb Butter
      6    Crackers, rolled
           Salt and pepper
  Combine vegetables and water.  Cover.  Cook until tender.  Add bacon which
  has been fried until crisp, and chopped.  Add butter. Season to taste. Add
  cracker crumbs.  Simmer 10 minutes. 8 servings.
  Grace Viall Gray, Glen Ellyn, IL.
      Title: Carrot Vichyssoise
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
    1/3 c  Chopped Leeks
    1/4 c  Chopped Onion
    1/4 c  Chopped Celery
  1 1/2 ts Low Cal. Margarine
      3 sm Potatoes (1/2 Lb.)
           Peeled & Diced
    1/2 lb Carrots Diced
      1 cn (10 3/4 Oz.) Chicken Broth
  1 1/2 ts Dried Dillweed
    1/2 ts Ground Nutmeg
      1 c  Water
           Freshly Grated Nutmeg
  Saute Leeks, Onion & Celery in Margarine in A Large Saucepan 3 Min. Add
  Potatoes, Carrots & Chicken Broth.  Bring To A Boil, Reduce Heat & Simmer
  20 Min. OR Until Vegetables Are Tender.  With Knife Blade in Processor, Add
  Half Of Cooked Vegetables & Half Of Liquid. Process 5 Min. OR Until Smooth.
  Pour Mixture Into A Bowl.  Repeat Procedure With Remaining Vegetables &
  Liquid.  Add Dill, Nutmeg & Water To Puree. Stir Well. Cover, Refrigerate 6
  Hours.  Garnish With Grated Nutmeg.
   (Fat 1.2  Chol. 0.)
      Title: Catfish Chowder
 Categories: Fish, Soups
   Servings:  6
      1 lb Catfish fillets, cut into
           -chunks
      2 sl Bacon, chopped
      1 c  Chopped onion
      1 cn Sliced potators, drained
      1 cn Cooking tomatoes, chopped
      2 c  Water
      1 cn Corn, drained
    1/4 ts Tarragon
    1/2 ts Celery salt
      2 ts Parsley flakes
    1/2 ts Oregano
    1/4 ts Salt
           Pepper to taste
      1 ts Seafood seasoning
      2 ts Thyme
  In a large pot, fry bacon until crisp.  Add onion and cook until tender.
  Add potatoes, tomatoes, and 2 cups water.  Cover; simmer until potatoes are
  tender.  Add corn and seasonings.  Cook slowly and adjust seasonings, if
  necessary.  Add yhe catfish 5 to 10 minutes before serving and simmer.
  Serves four.
  Posted by Alison Meyer. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Catfish Chowder
 Categories: Soups, Fish
   Servings:  6
      2 lb Catfish fillets
      2 c  Fish stock
      2 c  Lt. cream or milk
      4    Potatoes, peeled and diced
      2    Stalks of celery, diced,
           -with leaves
      2 ts Salt
      1    Clove minced garlic
      2 md Onions, sliced
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/2 ts White pepper
    1/2 c  Sherry
  Saute onions and celery in bacon drippings until tender.  Add all other
  ingredients except milk and cook over medium heat until potatoes are done.
  Add milk, heat on low.  Do not let milk get too hot.
  Posted by Bill Mathews. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Cauliflower and Roquefort Soup
 Categories: Soups, Cheese, Vegetables
   Servings:  4
      4 tb (1/2 stick) butter
      1 md Onion, chopped
      1 md Cauliflower
      1 lg Boiling potato
      1 qt Chicken broth
      2 tb Snipped chives
    1/2 ts Herbes de Provence
           Few drops liquid pepper
           -seasoning
      1 c  Heavy cream
      2    Egg yolks, room temperature
      2 tb Armagnac
    1/2 lb Roquefort, crumbled
  From Food and Wines of France, Inc.
  Chives for garnish
  Melt butter in large, heavy Dutch oven over moderately high heat and saute
  onion for 1 minute; cover; sweat for 10 minutes.  Meanwhile, halve and core
  the cauliflower.  Reserve some flowerets and chop remainder to total about
  6 cups.  Peel and dice potato.  Add cauliflower and potato to Dutch oven;
  cook, stirring, for 1 minute.  Add chicken broth, chives, Herbes de
  Provence and red pepper seasoning.  Bring to boil; cover; lower heat and
  simmer for 10 minutes, or until vegetables are just tender. Cool slightly.
  Puree all but 1 1/2 cups mixture in food processor or blender in batches;
  return to pan.  In a small bowl, blend cream, yolks and Armagnac; add 1 cup
  of the hot soup, beating constantly with wire whip. Return to pan; add half
  of crumbled Roquefort.  Heat very slowly, stirring constantly, until cheese
  melts and soup thickens slightly.  Do not allow soup to boil. Garnish soup
  with reserved cauliflowerets, crumbled Roquefort and chives.
  Makes 4 to 6 servings.
  Posted by Alison Meyer. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Celery Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  6
      1 tb Butter
      2 c  Chopped celery
      1 md Onion, chopped
      1 md Potato chopped
      2 c  Chicken stock
      1 ts Fresh dill (or parsley)
      2 c  Milk
      2 tb Grated fresh carrot
      2 tb Grated fresh celery
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
  Melt butter in a large pot. Add celery, onion and potato. Cover pot and
  stew vegetables over low heat for 10 minutes without browning.  Add stock
  and herbs; cook vegetables until soft, about 30 minutes.  Puree mixture in
  a blender, or force through a sieve.  Stir in milk, adjust seasonings, toss
  in grated carrot and celery.  Reheat to just below boiling point.  Makes 6
  servings.
  **>>April<<**
      Title: Celery Soup
 Categories: Soups, Osg
   Servings:  1
      1 c  Celery; chopped
      1 qt Beef broth
           Salt
           Pepper
  Boil 1 cup chopped celery in 1 quart beef broth until tender, season with
  salt and pepper. Serve with crackers. Source: Mrs. W. A. Parmenter, Canann
  Grange, Wayne County, OH
      Title: Cheddar Cheese and Cauliflower Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables, Cheese
   Servings:  4
      4 tb Butter
      3 md Carrots, cut into small dice
      3 md Celery stalks, cut into
           -small dice
      1 md Onion, minced
      3 tb Flour
  1 1/2 c  Chicken stock or canned
           -chicken broth
    1/2 sm Cauliflower, trimmed and cut
           -into
           Florets (2 cups)
      8 oz Mild cheddar cheese, grated
           -(2 cups); plus
      2 oz Cut into small dice for
           -garnish (1/2 cup)
  1 1/2 c  Half-and-half
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
           Salt
  NOTE:  For a milder, sweeter tasting soup, substitute 8 ounces Swiss cheese
  for the cheddar cheese.
  Heat the butter in a large saucepan.  Add the carrots, celery, and onion;
  saute for about 5 minutes until the vegetables are softened.  Add the flour
  and cook over low heat until the flower is incorporated into the butter,
  about 1 minute.
  Stirring constantly, gradually add stock and then the cauliflower. Bring to
  a boil and simmer until the cauliflower is tender, or about 5 minutes. Stir
  in the grated cheese and cook for about 30 seconds until melted. (Do not
  bring soup to a boil after cheese is added or the soup will break.) Stir in
  the half-and-half; warm the soup over low heat. Season with cayenne pepper
  and 1 teaspoon salt or to taste.
  To serve, ladle the soup into warm soup bowls.  Sprinkle each portion with
  the diced cheese and serve immediately.
  Makes 4 seervings.
  [ COOKS Magazine; Oct 1989 ]
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Cheddar Cheese Soup
 Categories: Soups, Cheese
   Servings:  4
      4 c  Chicken broth
      5 tb Butter
      4 tb Flour
      2    Carrots, peeled and diced
      4    Green onions, diced
      6 oz Grated cheddar cheese
      2    Sprigs parsley, chopped
      2    To 3 oz ham, diced
           Tabasco sauce
           Bacon bits
           Salt & pepper to taste
  Servings: 4
  Heat chicken stock.  Melt 3 Tbsp butter; saute carrots and onions until
  tender.  Add to broth.  Make white roux with 2 Tbsp butter and 4 Tbsp
  flour.  Add to stock.  Add cheddar cheese, parsley, ham and 1 drop tabasco
  sauce.  Season to taste.  Heat until cheese is melted.  Top with bacon bits
  when served.
  Makes 4 8-ounce servings.
  Source: Favorite Recipes from Boder's On-the-River, Mequon, WI and The
  Woolen Mill Inn, Cedarburg, WI.
  Posted by Sallie Krebs. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Cheddar-Potato-Broccoli Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables, Cheese
   Servings:  4
      1 tb Butter
      1 c  Chopped onions
  1 1/3 lb Potatoes, peeled, cut into
           -3/4-inch cubes
  2 1/2 c  Boiling water
      2    Chicken bouillon cubes
     10 oz Frozen broccoli cuts, thawed
           -and drained
      6 oz Shredded Cheddar cheese
           Salt and pepper to taste
  Melt the butter in a 2- to 3-quart saucepan.  Add the onion and saute for 5
  minutes.  Add the potatoes, water and bouillon cubes.  Cover and bring to a
  boil; reduce the heat  to medium and cook just until the potatoes are
  tender, about 15 minutes.  Remove 1 cup of potato cubes with a slotted
  spoon and set aside.  Pour the contents of the saucepan into a blender and
  process until smooth.  Return to the saucepan.  Mix in the reserved
  potatoes and the broccoli.  Place over medium-low heat and very gradually
  add the cheese, stirring until heated through and the cheese is completely
  melted.  Season with salt and pepper.
  Makes 4 servings.
  [The Baltimore Sun; Jan 8, 1992; Sherrie Ruhl]
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Cheese 'n Apple Soup
 Categories: Cheese, Soups
   Servings:  1
    1/3 c  Margarine or
           Butter
    1/3 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
  2 1/2 c  Milk
      4 c  Gouda cheese,
           Shredded
      1 c  Apple juice
  Melt margarine or butter in a saucepan over low heat.  Blend in flour and
  salt.  Gradually add milk; cook, stirring constantly, until thickened. Add
  cheese, stirring until melted.  Add juice; heat thoroughly, stirring
  occasionally.
  Makes four 1 1/4 cup servings.
      Title: Cheese and Beer Soup
 Categories: Soups, Cheese
   Servings:  1
      1 c  Finely chopped bacon
    1/2    Green bell pepper, chopped
           -fine
    1/2 c  Chopped celery
    1/2 md Onion, chopped fine
    2/3 c  Flour
      1    Stick butter
      3 qt Milk
      1    Pimiento, drained and
           -chopped
      1 c  Chicken bouillon
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
  1 1/2 lb Cheddar cheese, grated
    1/2 lb Provolone cheese, grated
    1/2 c  Beer
    1/4 c  Chopped parsley
           Salt and pepper to taste
  Cook bacon until crisp, remove from pan and reserve.  In about 3/4 tsp) (2
  oz.) of the bacon drippings, saute bell pepper, onion and celery. Make a
  roux by mixing flour and butter over a warm burner of the stove. When it
  starts to brown, add milk slowly, mixing all the while.
  Add the mixture of sauted vegetables, bacon, pimiento, bouillon, and garlic
  powder.  Heat over medium heat.  (High will scorch milk).  When the milk
  mixture reaches a medium temperature, add the cheeses and stir until
  cheeses liquefy.
  Add beer to the soup.  Reduce heat to simmer and simmer uncovered for 20
  minutes.  Just before removing soup from stove, mix in parsley for color.
  Add salt and pepper to taste.
  Freezes well.
  Makes 1 gallon or 10 servings.
  Source:  Kelly's Restaurant, in The Orlando Sentinel, 10/24/91
  Posted by Cindy Tarsi. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Cheese Soup
 Categories: Soups, Microwave
   Servings:  2
     20 g  Butter
     30 g  Flour
    1/2 l  MeatBouillon
     50 g  CreamCheese
           Salt
           White Pepper
           Rasped nutmeg
      2 tb Dry white wine
      1 tb Fine chopped parsley
  Melt the butter in an open dish for about 1/2 minute at 700 Watt. Stir de
  flour through the butter. Add the bouillon and heat it in a covered dish
  until it cooks, meanwhile stir a few times. Cut the Creamcheese into smaal
  boxes and add it to the soup. Cover it and let it melt 2 minutes. Make it
  ti taste with the wine, pepper and nutmeg. Serve it with the parsley.
  From: Recipies for the MicroWave. Translated by Sebastiaan de Man
      Title: Cheesy Chicken Chowder
 Categories: Soups, Chicken, Vegetables, Cheese
   Servings:  2
      4 c  Chicken broth
  1 1/2 c  Diced potatoes
      1 c  Diced celery
      1 c  Diced carrots
    1/2 c  Diced onions
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine
    1/3 c  All-purpose flour
      3 c  Milk
      1 tb Soy sauce
      8 oz Processed cheese spread,
           -cubed (1 loaf)
      2 c  Chopped cooked chicken
  Combine the broth and the vegetables in a large sauce pan.  Cover and cook
  over medium heat for 15 minutes or until the vegetables are tender.
  Melt the butter in a Dutch oven over low heat.  Add the flour, stirring
  until smooth.  Cook for 1 minute, stirring constantly. Gradually stir in
  the milk and cook over medium heat, stirring constantly, until thickened
  and bubbly.  Gradually stir in the vegetable mixture, soy sauce, cheese and
  chicken.  Cook until the cheese melts and the soup is thoroughly heated.
  Makes 2 1/2 quarts.
  {Mrs.  William Yoder, Jr.; Montezuma, Georgia}
  [Southern Living; January 1992]
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Cheesy Cream of Broccoli Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      2 tb Unsalted butter
      1 md Onion; roughly diced
  1 1/2 lb Cooked or uncooked broccoli
           - roughly chopped
      1 ts Salt
      1    Capful Pernod (optional)
      3 qt Chicken stock or water; OR
           - canned low-sodium broth
      3 c  Milk and/or whipping cream
           Grated Jack, Velveeta; -OR-
           -Swiss cheese
  MELT BUTTER in a large pot over medium heat. Add the onion and cook,
  stirring occasionally, until onion softens, about 10 minutes. Add the
  broccoli, salt and optional Pernod. Continue to cook, stirring, another 15
  minutes. Add the stock. Cover, increase heat to high and bring to a boil.
  Reduce heat to low and simmer 15 minutes. Remove from heat and place in a
  food processor or blender and puree until smooth. Combine puree, cream and
  milk. Serve piping hot and offer the grated cheese on the side to add to
  the soup.
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
      Title: Cherry-Wine Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      1 oz Can pitted tart red cherries
  1 1/2 c  Water
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 tb Quick-cooking tapioca
    1/8 ts Ground cloves
    1/2 c  Dry red wine
  In 1 1/2-quart saucepan stir together undrained cherries, water, sugar,
  tapioca, and cloves. Let stand 5 minutes. Bring to boiling. Reduce heat;
  cover and simmer for 15 minutes, stirring occasionally. Remove from heat;
  stir in wine. Cover and chill, stirring occasionally. Makes 6 to 8
  servings.
  Recipe from: Better Homes and Gardens, Soups & Stews Cookbook copyright
  1978 by Meredith Corporation, Des Moines, Iowa
      Title: Chestnut and Lentil Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetarian
   Servings:  6
      1 lb Chestnuts
           Light oil
      1 c  French green lentils
           -=OR=- Brown Lentils
      2 qt Water
      1 md Carrot
           - diced into
           - small, even squares
      1    Celery stalk
           - cut into small squares
    1/2 sm Onion; finely diced
      1 lg Garlic clove
           - peeled and finely chopped
      1    Bay leaf
    1/2 ts Salt; or to taste
      5    Parsley sprigs
------------------------FINISHING THE SOUP-----------------------------
      3 tb Light olive oil
           -Chestnuts (from above)
  1 1/2 ts Chopped fresh marjoram -OR-
    1/2 ts -Dried Marjoram
    1/4 ts Fennel seeds, crushed
           - (or ground)
           Fresh thyme sprigs; -=OR=-
      1 pn -(generous) dried Thyme
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
      1 tb Tomato paste
           -Lentils (from above)
           Water, stock or cream
           -(as needed)
           Salt
           Freshly milled black pepper
           Extra-virgin olive oil
           Finely chopped parsley
           Small croutons, fried
           -(in butter or oil)
           -(optional)
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. Score chestnuts on their rounded sides and toss them
  in just enough oil to lightly coat them. Place chestnuts on baking sheet.
  Bake until skins have opened and meat is tender, about 20 minutes. When
  cool enough to handle, peel and dice them into small pieces. Set aside.
  Rinse lentils and combine them in soup pot with the water. Bring to boil.
  Cook a few minutes at gentle boil, removing foam that forms on surface. Add
  carrot, celery, onion, garlic, bay leaf, salt and parsley. Lower heat and
  simmer until lentils are tender, about 35 minutes. When done, remove
  parsley sprigs and bay leaf. Correct seasoning and add salt, if necessary.
  Puree half the lentils until smooth, then recombine them with the rest.
  FINISHING THE SOUP: In pan large enough to hold soup, warm olive oil, then
  add roasted chestnuts and herbs. Cook over medium heat, stirring
  frequently, for several minutes. Add wine and tomato paste. Stir to
  dissolve tomato paste and cook a few minutes to reduce wine. Stir in lentil
  mixture and simmer gently 20 minutes. If soup is too thick, thin it with a
  little water, stock or cream until of right consistency. Taste for salt and
  season with pepper. Serve with spoonful of olive oil swirled into each
  bowl. Sprinkle with parsley and croutons, if desired.
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
      Title: Chestnut Soup with Amaretto
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  8
      2 lb Fresh chestnuts
      2    Carrots
      2    Parsnips
      1 sm Onion
      1 sm Clove garlic
      2    To 3 scallions
      3    Stalks celery, OR 1 small
           -celery root
      4 tb Butter
      5 c  Brown stock or chicken stock
      1    Bouquet garni of bayleaf,
           -thyme, and parsley
      3    To 4 Tbl amaretto or
           -hazelnut liqueur (like
           -Frangelico)
      1 c  Heavy cream
  Salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste Cayenne pepper and freshly
  ground nutmeg
  Make a slash in the rounded side of each chestnut and roast in a preheated
  400 F oven for 5 minutes.  Peel off the shell and inner skin.
  Peel the carrots, parsnip, onion and garlic.  Finely chop all of the
  vegetables, including the scallions and celery.  Melt the butter in a large
  saucepan over medium heat.  Add the vegetables and cook for 5 minutes, or
  until soft but not brown.  Add the chestnuts, stock and bouquet garni.
  Gently simmer the soup for 40 minutes, or until the chestnuts are very
  soft.
  Remove the bouquet garni and puree the soup in a blender or food processor.
  Return the soup to the saucepan, adding the amaretto, 2/3 of the cream, and
  salt, pepper, cayenne pepper and nutmeg to taste; the soup should be very
  flavorful.  If a sweeter flavor is desired, add a spoonful of brown sugar.
  To serve, ladle the chestnut soup into warmed bowls.  Pour a little of the
  remaining cream into each bowl and marble it into the soup, stirring with a
  skewer.  Chestnut soup is extremely rich, so keep the rest of the meal
  simple.
  Makes 8 servings.
  Nutrient Value per Serving: 516 Calories, 10 g Protein, 19 g Fat, 11 g
  Saturated Fat, 75 g Carbohydrates, 57 mg Cholesterol, 582 mg Sodium
  [The Washington Post; January 9, 1991]
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Chez Melange Gazpacho
 Categories: Soups, Vegetarian
   Servings:  8
           Karen Mintzias
      1    Cucumber; peeled, seeded,
           - and diced
      2    Tomatoes; diced
    1/2    Onion; diced
    1/2    Red bell pepper; seeded,
           - and diced
    1/2    Yellow bell pepper; seeded,
           - and diced
    1/2    Green bell pepper; seeded,
           - and diced
      2 tb Fresh dill, chopped
      2 tb Fresh cilantro, chopped
      1 pt Beef stock
      1 tb Olive oil
  1 1/2 tb Red wine vinegar
      1 ts Garlic, finely chopped
      1 ts Tabasco sauce
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts White pepper
      1 pt Tomato juice
  Combine all of the ingredients and mix them together well.  Chill the soup.
  (Executive Chef Bill Donnelly says, "I like to serve this soup in a big
  bowl with chips around it and some guacamole on the side.  It's a
  wonderful, refreshing dish that is perfect on a hot summer day.")
  Source: Chez Melange - Redondo Beach, California "Southern California Beach
  Recipe" by Joan and Carl Stromquist ISBN: 0-9622807-3-9 Typed for you by
  Karen Mintzias
      Title: Chick Pea and Spinach Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      1 lg Onion, chopped
      4    Cloves of garlic, minced
      1 c  Skim milk
     16 oz Can chick peas, drained and
           -rinsed
      4 c  To 5 c fresh spinach,
           -rinsed, dried, and shredded
    1/8 ts Cardamom
    1/8 ts Nutmeg
      1 ts Curry powder
           Salt and pepper to taste
  Saute the onion and garlic over low heat, covered, until the onion is
  translucent.
  Add the milk and raise heat to medium, and cook until a boil is just
  reached, stirring constantly.  Add the chick peas, spinach, and spices, and
  continue to cook and stir.  When spinach is completely wilted, remove a cup
  and a half of the soup to a blender and puree.  Return the puree to the
  soup, stir well, and serve hot.  Makes 4 servings.
  And the calorie total on this one was 174, and only 1.6 g fat.  (The
  sherbet, by the way, was 130 calories and 2 g fat, so we were very pleased
  with ourselves.)
      Title: Chick Pea and Vegetable Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
    1/3 lb Dried chick peas
      4 tb Olive oil
      1    Onion, chopped
      2    Ribs celery, diced
      2    Carrots, diced
      1    Leek, white and pale green
           -parts, thinly sliced
      2    Cloves garlic, chopped
      2 c  Shredded cabbage
  1 1/2 c  Canned Italian plum
           -tomatoes, chopped with
           -their juice
      2 ts Tomato paste
      7 c  Chicken broth
      1    Zucchini, chopped
    1/3 c  Elbow macaroni
           Salt
           Freshly-ground pepper
  Soak the chick peas overnight in plenty of cold water; the next day drain
  the chick peas and rinse under cold water.  Set aside.  Place the oil and
  onion in a soup kettle, set over low heat and cook slowly until the onion
  has softened, about 5 minutes.  Increase the heat to medium, add the celery
  and stir-cook for 1 minute.  Add the carots and stir-cook for 1 minute; add
  the leek and stir-cook for 1 minute.  Add the garlic and cabbage, stir,
  cover the pot and cook for 2 minutes.  Add the tomatoes, tomato paste, and
  broth.  Dump in the chick peas.  Bring the soup base to a boil; boil for 3
  minutes.  Cover and simmer for 1 1/2 to 2 hours, or until chick peas are
  completely tender.  (The soup may be prepared in advance to this point.)
  To finish the soup, add the zucchini and elbow macaroni to the simmering
  soup.  Cover and continue to simmer for 12 minutes, or until the macaroni
  is al dente and the zucchini is cooked through.  Season with salt and
  freshly-ground pepper to taste.  Ladle the soup into warm bowls and serve
  piping hot.
  Makes 6 servings.
  [WASHINGTON POST JAN 11, 1989] Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Chicken and Mushroom Soup
 Categories: Soups, Fresh herbs, Vegetables
   Servings:  2
    1/2 lb Boneless Chicken Breast
      2 c  Chicken Stock
      1 c  Fresh Mushrooms, Quartered
      4 tb Sesame Oil
      2 tb Sherry
      2 tb Fresh Parsley, Chopped
  Thinly slice the chicken breast meat.  Bring the chicken stock to a rolling
  boil and add the chicken and mushrooms.  When the soup starts to boil again
  and all of the ingredients float to the top, remove from the heat. Add the
  sesame oil and sherry and taste for seasoning.  Add salt and pepper if
  necessary.  Serve in individual soup bowls and sprinkle the parsley on top.
  Serves 2. From The Gazette, 91/02/13.
      Title: Chicken and Vegetable Soup with Tiny Meatballs
 Categories: Soups, Chicken, Pork, Vegetables
   Servings:  6
      3 qt Chicken stock
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 tb Butter
      2 md Onions, diced
      2    Ribs celery, diced
      1 md Carrot, scrubbed and diced
      2 tb Tomato paste
      1 tb Brandy
      1 lg Turnip, peeled and diced
    1/4 lg Butternut squash, peeled,
           -seeded and diced
      1    Thick slice crusty French or
           -Otalian bread
      3 sm Cloves garlic
      1    Egg
     12 oz Boned and skin cooked
           -chicken, coarsely diced
      4 oz Best quality smoked ham,
           -coarsely diced
           Freshly ground black pepper
           Small sprigs fresh basil
           -and/or parsley
           Unbleached all-purpose flour
           Salt to taste
  Bring the stock to a boil in a large soup pot.  Turn the heat down to low
  and let simmer, uncovered, while you continue.
  Heat the oil and butter in a skillet over medium heat.  Add the onions and
  saute for 2 or 3 minutes.  Add the celery and carrot; saute for another 5
  minutes, then add the vegetables to the simmering chicken stock along with
  the tomato paste, brandy, turnip and butternut squash. Simmer gently,
  covered, until the vegetables are tender, about 15 minutes.
  Meanwhile, make the meatballs.  In a food processor whizz together the
  bread, garlic and egg for about 30 seconds until a smooth paste is formed.
  Add the chicken, ham, pepper and the basil and/or parsley. Pulse-chop 10 to
  15 times, then process until a smooth, very thick paste is formed.
  Roll the meat paste into balls the size of a large marble.  Roll the balls
  in the flour so that they are lightly dusted all over.
  When the vegetables are tender, raise the heat slightly so that the soup
  simmers with a little more intensity.  Drop the meatballs into the soup and
  let cook for 5 to 7 minutes.  Taste for seasoning and adjust if necessary.
  Be careful not to oversalt as the ham is salty.  Serve immediately.
  Serves 6 to 8 as an entre with bread and salad.
  NOTE:  This is even better the next day, but first remove the meatballs and
  wrap them separately rather than storing them overnight with the broth.
  Dairy Hollow House Soup and Bread, A Country Inn Cookbook by Crescent
  Dragonwagon.  Workman Publishing ISBN: 1-56305-243-1
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Chicken Broth
 Categories: Soups, 1941, Text
   Servings:  6
           Text Only
  Dress a 3 or 4 pound chicken.  Cut in pieces.  Cover with cold water. Heat
  slowly to boiling.  Cover.  Simmer until meat falls from bone. Strain.
  Process as lamb broth, or use at once.
  The Household Searchlight
      Title: Chicken Corn-Meal Soup
 Categories: Soups, 1941
   Servings:  6
      6 c  Chicken broth
    1/4 c  Diced onion
      1 c  Diced potatoes
      1 c  Chopped chicken
    1/4 c  Corn-meal
           Salt and pepper
  Heat broth to boiling.  Add vegetables.  Cover.  Simmer until vegetables
  are tender.  Sift in corn-meal slowly, stirring constantly. Add chicken.
  Season to taste.  Cover.  Simmer 10 minutes. 10 servings.
  Mrs. H.C. Miller, Milton, KY.
      Title: Chicken Corn Chowder
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      2 c  Salted water
      2 lg Potatoes, peeled & cut in
           -half & diced
      4    Carrots, diced
    1/2 c  Celery, diced
      1 sm Onion, chopped
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine
    1/4 c  Flour
      2 c  Milk
    3/4 c  Sharp cheddar cheese,
           -shredded
      1    (8 oz) can cream corn
  1 1/2 c  Diced cooked chicken
  SERVES: 6
  Salt, white pepper, & tabasco to taste Croutons, chives or parsley
  Put water in saucepan and add potatoes, carrots, celery and onion; bring to
  a boil, cover, reduce heat and simmer for 10 minutes.  Melt butter in a
  small kettle and blend in flour without browning; gradually stir in milk
  and cook, stirring until smooth and thickened.  Add cheese and stir until
  it melts.  Add vegetables with their liquid, corn and chicken; heat through
  and season to taste.  Ladle into warm bowls, topping with croutons and
  chives.
  Posted by Michael Grosz. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Chicken Noodle Soup
 Categories: Soups, Low-cal, Microwave
   Servings:  8
      3 lb Chicken Pieces
      6 c  Hot Water, Divided
      2 lg Stalks Celery, Thin Slice
      1 md Carrot, Thin Sliced
    1/2 ts Dried Basil
    1/4 ts Rosemary
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 ts Salt, (Optional)
    1/2 c  Thin Egg Noodles
  In a 5-qt casserole combine chicken, 4 cups hot water, celery, carrots,
  basil, rosemary, pepper and salt. Microwave at High 30-40 minutes, or until
  chicken falls easily from the bone, stirring twice during cooking. Remove
  chicken from the bones. Discard bones and skin. Dice meat and return to
  caserole. Add 2 cups hot water and noodles. Cover. Microwave at High 8-10
  minutes, or until water boils. Then, Microwave at High 7-10 minutes, or
  until noodles are tender.  PER SERVING: 111 calories, 274 mg sodium, 6 mg
  cholesterol.
      Title: Chicken Noodle Yogurt Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      2 tb Safflower oil
      1    Onion, chopped
      2 qt Chicken broth, (OR
      2    Bouillon cubes AND
      2 qt Water)
      3    Chicken bouillon cubes
      5    Cloves garlic, minced
      1 ts Thyme
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
      1 ts Mixed vegetable seasoning
      5    Sprigs parsley, chopped fine
      2 ts Basil
      3    Carrots
      6 oz Wide egg noodles
      3 c  Cubed cooked chicken
      2 tb Arrowroot
      2 c  Yogurt, plain
      7    Green onions, chopped
  Pour oil into soup pot; add onion and cook 5 minutes.  Add broth bouillon
  cubes, garlic, thyme, soy sauce, salt, parsley, basil, and carrots.  Cover
  and bring to a boil; reduce heat and simmer 30 minutes.  Stir in noodles
  and cook uncovered 10 minutes; add chicken. In separate bowl, stir
  arrowroot into yogurt; blend well. Add to soup, stirring as needed.
  Increase heat to boiling and allow soup to thicken a little. Garnish with
  chopped green onions.
      Title: Chicken Noodle Soup
 Categories: Penn-dutch, Soups
   Servings:  1
      4 lb Chicken
      3 qt Cold Water
      1    Onion, Sliced
      1    Carrot, Sliced
      1    Bay Leaf
      1 ts Parsley
           Salt & Pepper
  Wash and clean chicken carefully; cut in pieces. Cover with the cold water.
  Add the vegetables and seasoning and let simmer for 3 hours or until
  chicken is tender. Skim off fat. Remove the chicken and add 2 cups of
  noodles and cook 15 minutes. Source: Pennsylvania Dutch Cook Book - Fine
  Old Recipes, Culinary Arts Press, 1936.
      Title: Chicken Noodle Soup (Slow Cooker)
 Categories: Chicken, Soups, Crockpot
   Servings:  8
      1    Broiler-fryer (3 to 3 1/2
           -lb), cut up and skinned
      2 md Carrots, peeled and chopped
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      2    Stalks celery, chopped
  2 1/2 ts Salt (or less)
      2 ts Dried parsley flakes
    3/4 ts Dried marjoram leaves
    1/2 ts Dried basil leaves
    1/4 ts Poultry seasoning
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1    Bay leaf
      2 qt Water
  2 1/2 c  Uncooked medium egg noodles
           -(4 Oz)
  Place the first 4 ingredients in a 3 1/2-quart slow cooker in the order
  listed.  Combine salt and the next 6 ingredients; sprinkle over vegetables.
  Add 6 cups water; cover and cook on low setting for 8 to 10 hours. Remove
  chicken and bay leaf; add remaining 2 cups water.  Stir in noodles and
  cook, covered, on high setting for 20 minutes.  Meanwhile remove bones from
  chicken and cut chicken into bite-size pieces.  Add to slow cooker, stir to
  mix.  Cook for 15 minutes on high setting, covered or until noodles are
  tender.
  Makes 3 1/4 quarts.  Serves 8 to 10.
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Chicken Noodle Soup New Orleans Style
 Categories: Soups, Chicken, Crockpot
   Servings:  6
      1 lg Whole fryer
      1 c  Diced onions
    1/2 c  Diced celery
    1/2 c  Minced parsley
      4    Cloves minced garlic
      1 c  Chopped carrots
      3    Bay leaves
      1 ts Poultry seasoning
      4 qt Bottled water (I used
           -regular tap water)
     12 oz Broad egg noodles
      2 tb Butter
      1 c  Sliced onion rings
      1 c  Sliced mushrooms (I left
           -these out)
      1 c  Diced carrots
    1/4 c  Cream sherry
  SOURCE: Cathy Keller.
  Tabasco sauce Salt and pepper to taste Green onions for garnish
  First, take the chicken and wash it thoroughly - that means both inside and
  out!  Remove the giblets, scrub out the internal cavity under cold running
  water, and scrape away anything that doesn't look edible. (But DO NOT
  remove the chicken skin or any of the fat!  You need the skin to make a
  rich stock.) Next, take a crock pot (see Note below if you don't have a
  crock pot) and place the chicken and giblets into it.  Then drop in the
  diced onions, the 1/2 c of celery, the 1/2 c of minced parsley, the garlic,
  chopped carrots, bay leaves, poultry seasoning and 2 quarts of water. Then,
  with a spoon, evenly distribute the seasoning mixture around the chicken,
  turn the crock pot to HIGH, and cook for at least six hours (or better
  still, OVERNIGHT).  Remember, the longer you cook, the richer the base
  stock and the more tender the chicken.  While the chicken is slow-cooking,
  it's a good time to prepare your noodles
  Go ahead and boil them according to package directions... but DO NOT COOK
  THEM UNTIL DONE!  Keep in mind that you're going to drop them into a soup,
  so you want them el dente (firm), otherwise they'll turn to pure mush by
  the time you eat them.  Furthermore, you want a small percent of the starch
  in the noodles to cook into the soup to thicken it slightly - if you cook
  the noodles all the way, the soup's consistency will be flat and thin.
  After the noodles are cooked, butter them slightly and set them aside. When
  the chicken is tender, take a set of tongs or a strainer spoon, remove it
  from the crock pot (it may tend to fall apart, but that's okay), and set it
  on a platter to cool.  At this point, strain out all the seasoning
  vegetables from the stock, place the stock into a metal bowl, and place the
  bowl into the refrigerator or freezer until the chicken fat congeals (which
  should take about 1 hour).  Meanwhile, pick the chicken off the bones and,
  with a sharp knife, chop it into bit-sized pieces. Then, in a heavy 12-inch
  skillet, melt the butter and saute the sliced onions, mushrooms, and
  carrots until they're tender.  Then drop in the chopped chicken meat. And
  over medium-low heat, cook it into the vegetables for about 10 minutes.
  While the chicken and vegetables are sauteing, remove the chicken stock
  from the refrigerator, skim off all the fat, and place the skimmed stock
  into a soup pot, along with the remaining 2 quarts of water. At this point,
  you should season the soup stock to taste with salt and pepper. Now drop in
  the sauteed chicken, mushrooms, onion rings and diced carrots - along with
  the sherry, the Tabasco*, and as soon as it comes to a boil, reduce the
  heat to low and simmer the soup for about 30 minutes to allow all the
  flavors to thoroughly blend. When you're ready to eat, ladle out heaping
  helpings of the piping hot soup into bowls, garnish with a sprinkling of
  thinly sliced green onions, and serve with crunch saltines.
  *I just put a couple of drops of Tabasco in there
  NOTE:  I found a REAL bargain on chicken hindquarters, so used them... was
  out of parsley, so omitted that.  USED the mushrooms and they are heavenly
  in it.  Didn't use the sherry, though I think it would be really good. And
  was out of flat noodles, so used a good handful of vermicelli broken into
  about 2" lengths, and just simmered in the soup.  It was REALLY good.
  Posted by Marge Clark Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Chicken Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      1    Chicken and giblets, cut up
      1 tb Salt
      4    Carrots, chopped
      6    Celery stalks w/leaves, chop
      1    Onion, med., chopped
      1    Garlic clove, minced
      1 c  Rice or noodles
  Put chicken pieces in large pot with water to cover.  Add salt and bring to
  a boil. Reduce heat to simmer and skim off fat. Add vegetables and garlic,
  cover and cook until tender.  Remove chicken and either serve separately or
  dice and return to soup.  Season to taste.  Add rice or noodles and cook
  until tender.
      Title: Chicken Soup
 Categories: Soups, 1941
   Servings:  8
      6 c  Chicken broth
    1/2 c  Diced carrots
      1 sm Onion, diced
    1/2    Bay leaf
    1/2 c  Rice
    1/2 c  Diced celery
           Salt and pepper
  Heat broth to boiling.  Add bay leaf.  Season to taste.  Cover. Simmer 30
  minutes.  Strain.  Add rice, onion, carrots, and celery. Cover. Simmer
  until vegetables are tender.  If desired, 1 tablespoon lean uncooked ham
  may be added with the vegetables to give variety in flavor. 8 servings.
  Mrs. O.S., Hillside, NE.
      Title: Chicken Soup
 Categories: Soups, Chicken
   Servings:  6
      1    Chicken, cut up
      1 lg Onion, quartered
      2    Ribs celery with leaves, cut
           -into 3" pieces
      2    Carrots, cut into 2" pieces
      4    Sprigs parsley
      3    Bay leaves
  Oregano (about 1/2 tsp) Thyme (about 1/2 tsp) Cooked rice
  Wash chicken pieces and remove any excess fat.  Place in Dutch oven with
  onion, celery, carrots, parlsey, bay leaves, oregano and thyme. Cover with
  water about 1 inch higher than the chicken.  Let boil about for 1 hour.
  Take chicken pieces out of the pot, remove skin and bones, and chop up
  chicken meat.  (Some people also strain the broth, removing the vegetables.
  I like to eat them.) Place broth in refrigerator and cool.
  Skim fat from broth, place on medium heat, add however much of the chopped
  up chicken you'd like and heat.  Add rice and heat until rice is heated
  through.  Salt and pepper to taste and serve.
  Posted by Ellen Cleary. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Chicken Stock
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  3
     10 lb Chicken wings and backs
      2    Whole cloves
      2 lg Onions
      4    Carrots, peeled
      2    Leeks (white part only)
      2    Celery stalks
      5    Garlic cloves, unpeeled
      1 c  Fresh parsley sprigs
      2    Bay leaves
    1/2 ts Dried thyme, crumbled
    1/2 ts Peppercorns
  Makes about 3 quarts
  Cover chicken with water in stockpot.  Bring to boil over medium heat,
  skimming surface as necessary.  Boil slowly 2 hours, skimming frequently.
  Stick cloves into 1 onion.  Add to stockpot with remaining ingredients.
  Boil slowly 2 hours, adding water as necessary to keep ingredients covered.
  Strain stock into heavy saucepan. Boil until reduced to 3 quarts. Cool to
  room temperature.  Cover and refrigerate. Discard fat from surface before
  using.  (Can be prepared 3 days ahead and refrigerated, or frozen 2
  months.)
  Bon Appetite
      Title: Chicken Velvet Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
      1    Chicken (about 5 pounds)
  2 1/2 qt Water
           SOUP
    3/4 c  Butter (room temperature)
    3/4 c  Flour
      2 c  Light cream (OR
           -half-and-half)
      6 c  Chicken stock, heated
  1 1/2 c  Cooked chicken breast,
           -finely chopped
           Salt, to taste, if desired
           Freshly ground black pepper,
           -to taste
      1 c  Fresh parsley, snipped, to
           -garnish
  STOCK
  BROTH:  Simmer the chicken  for about 1 hour.  Remove the chicken and cool;
  remove the meat from the bones.  Reserve the white meat and save the
  remainder for other uses.
  SOUP:  Blend the butter and flour together in a medium (3-quart) saucepan.
  Warm the cream in a seperate pan.  Add the warmed cream to the butter-flour
  mixture and stir until smooth.  It will start to thicken when it is heated.
  Stir in two cups of the hot stock.  Cook over low heat, stirring, until
  heated through and blended, about 4 minutes. Add an additional 4 cups of
  stock and the chopped chicken.  Season to taste with salt, if desired, and
  pepper.  Heat to serving temperature--steaming, but not boiling or the
  cream will break. Watch the pot closely to keep from coming to a boil.
  SERVICE:  Serve from a heated tureen and ladle into heated bowls. Garnish
  with snippets of fresh parsley. YIELD: About 8 servings.
  [[ THE COMPLETE BOOK OF SOUPS AND STEWS: Bernard Clayton, Jr.: Simon &
  Shuster; 1984 ]]
      Title: Chicken Velvet Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  5
      6 tb Butter or margarine
    1/2 c  Milk
      3 c  Chicken broth
      6 tb Flour
    1/2 c  Light cream
      1 c  Fine chopped cooked chicken
      1 ds Pepper
  In saucepan, melt butter or margarine.  Blend in flour, then stir in milk,
  light cream and chicken broth.  Cook over medium heat, stirring constantly,
  until mixture thickens and comes to a boil.  Reduce heat. Stir in finely
  chopped cooked chicken and dash of pepper.  Return soup to boiling and
  serve immediately.  Makes about 5 cups of soup.
                        1991   WILLIAMS, Dorothy June and Diana
                               Williams HANSEN
                               The James Whitcomb Riley Cookbook
                               Guild Press of Indiana, Indianapolis.
  This recipe was a standard at the famous Tea Room of L.S. Ayres' Department
  Store in Indianapolis.  Ayres' opened for business in 1907.  In the store's
  early years it was thought that food was served from informal food stands
  before the Tea Room opened in 1929.  The Tea Room was closed in 1991 and
  the original downtown Ayres' store was closed in January 1992.
      Title: Chicken, Corn and Tomato Chowder
 Categories: Chicken, Soups
   Servings:  8
      1    Chicken (3 pounds), cut up
      1 md Onion, chopped
      1 ts Poultry seasoning
      1 cn Corn kernels (16 ounces),
           -with liquid
      1 cn Whole tomatoes (16 ounces),
           -drained and cut up
      1 ts Lemon juice
           Salt and freshly ground
           -pepper
  NOTE:  This recipe is even better with FRESH corn and tomatoes.
  In a large saucepan, simmer the chicken in 4 cups with onion and poultry
  seasoning for 45 minutes.  Remove chicken and let cool; reserve the broth.
  Skim fat from chicken broth.  Remove meat from chicken; discard skin and
  bones.  Cut meat into bite-size pieces.
  In a large non-aluminum saucepan, combine chicken, chicken broth, corn,
  tomatoes and lemon juice.  Simmer for 30 minutes.  Season with salt and
  pepper to taste.
  Serves 8.
  [ 365 Ways To Cook Chicken; Cheryl Sedaker, 1986 ]
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Chicken-Style Noodle Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings: 10
    1/2 lb Noodles
      1 ea Onion, chopped
      1 c  Celery, chopped
      2 tb Chicken-style seasoning
      1 ts Salt
      6 c  Water
      2 ea Potatoes, large, peeled,
           -cubed
      2 c  Garbanzos with juice
      1 tb Parsley, chopped
      2 c  Tofu, scrambled, optional
  Servings:   10
  Cook noodles as directed on package.  Drain.  Meanwhile, saute' onion,
  celery, chicken-style season, and salt in 1/4 cup water until tender. Add 6
  cups water with potatoes and continue cooking.  Meanwhile, whiz garbanzos
  in their own juice, add a little water if necessary. Combine all
  ingredients and simmer slowly to allow flavors to blend. Adjust water and
  salt as desired.
  Total Calories: 2400.
  Posted by Lawrence Kellie Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Chili Blanco Especial
 Categories: Soups, Beans, Crockpot
   Servings:  8
           Jim Vorheis
      1 lb Dry White Northern Beans
  5 1/4 c  Chicken broth
      2    Cloves garlic, minced
      1 lg White onion, chopped
      1 tb Ground white pepper
      1 ts Salt
      1 tb Dried oregano
      1 tb Ground cumin
    1/2 ts Ground cloves
      7 oz Can diced green chilies
      5 c  Diced cooked chicken breast
  1 3/4 c  Chicken broth
      1 tb Diced jalapeno pepper
           -(optional)
      8    Flour tortillas
           Condiments:
           Shredded Monterey Jack
           Sliced black olives
           Chunky salsa
           Sour cream
           Diced avocado
  Soak beans in water to cover for 24 hours; drain.
  In crock pot or large kettle, combine beans, 5 1/4 cups chicken broth,
  garlic, onion, white pepper, salt, oregano, cumin and cloves. Simmer
  covered for at least 5 hours until beans are tender, stirring occasionally.
  Stir in green chilies, diced chicken, and 1 3/4 cups chicken broth. For
  hotter taste, add jalapeno. Cover and simmer for 1 hour. To serve, line
  each bowl with 1 flour tortilla. Spoon in chili and serve with all
  condiments for a very special chili.
  Creme de Colorado Cookbook (1987) From the collection of Jim Vorheis
      Title: Chili Con Carne Winchester
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      2 tb Vegetable oil
    1/3 c  Chopped onion
    1/3 c  Chopped green pepper
      1 lb Ground beef
      1    Garlic clove, minced
      1 cn Stewed tomatoes (1 lb)
      2 cn Kidney beans, drained (15oz)
      1 cn VEG-ALL Mixed Vegetables,
           -with liquid (16 oz)
  1. Heat oil in 3-quart pot. Add onion and green pepper and cook until soft.
  2. Add ground beef, garlic, stewed tomatoes, and kidney beans. Bring to
  boil; cover, reduce heat and simmer for 30 minutes.
  3. Stir in VEG-ALL and cook 10 minutes longer.
      Title: Chili Con Carne
 Categories: Soups, 1941
   Servings:  8
      1 lb Hamburger
    1/2 c  Ground suet
  2 1/2 c  Cooked kidney beans
      2 c  Cooked tomatoes
      1 c  Water
      1    Clove garlic
           OR 1/4  tsp garlic salt
    1/4 c  Chopped onion
           Chili powder
           Salt
  Brown meat in suet.  Add onion.  Cook until brown.  Add beans, garlic,
  water, and tomatoes.  Season to taste.  Simmer until the flavors are well
  blended.  8 servings.
  Mrs. Bess Hiatt, Norfolk, NE.
      Title: Chili Con Carne
 Categories: Soups, Osg, Chili
   Servings:  1
      1 lb Beef; ground
      1 qt Tomatoes
      1 pt Kidney beans
      1 ea Onion; large
           Salt
           Pepper
  Brown meat and onions in skillet. Add tomatoes, beans and seasoning. Heat
  thoroughly and serve. Source: Mary Brown, Olive Grange, Noble County, OH
      Title: Chili Primero
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
           Jim Vorheis
      1 lb Smoked bacon, cut into
           -3/8-inch pieces
      4 lb Round steak, cut into
           -1/4-inch cubes
     56 oz Canned tomatoes
     15 oz Can tomato sauce
      6 oz Can tomato paste
      7 oz Can diced green chilies
      2 tb Diced jalapeno peppers
           -(optional)
      4 oz Can diced, pickled cactus,
           -drained (optional)
      2 c  Chopped onions
      2 c  Chopped green bell pepper
      1 c  Minced fresh parsley
      2 ts Ground coriander
      3    Cloves garlic, minced
      8 ts Ground cumin
      1 ts Cayenne pepper
    1/4 ts Dried oregano
    1/4 ts Paprika
      2 ts Salt
      1 ts Freshly ground black pepper
      1 tb Fresh lemon juice
      2 tb Mild chili powder
    1/2 ts Medium-hot chili powder
    1/2 c  Masa harina (corn flour)
           Garnish:
           Sour cream
           Shredded Cheddar cheese
           Shredded Monterey Jack
           -cheese
  In large skillet, brown bacon; drain and set aside, reserving grease. In
  same skillet, brown round steak.  Put browned round steak and bacon pieces
  in large stockpot.  Stir in tomatoes with liquid, tomato sauce, tomato
  paste, green chilies, jalapenos and cactus. Heat to simmering. In same
  skillet, saute onions in 1/2 reserved bacon grease until transparent. Add
  to stockpot. Repeat with green peppers. Stir in parsley, coriander, garlic,
  cumin, cayenne pepper, oregano, paprika, salt, pepper, lemon juice and
  chili powders.  Cook over low heat for 1 hour, stirring occasionally to
  prevent sticking.  Sprinkle masa harina over soup and stir. Simmer covered
  for 4 hours.  Garnish each serving with sour cream and shredded cheese.
  Creme de Colorado Cookbook (1987) From the collection of Jim Vorheis
      Title: Chili Soup
 Categories: Soups, Osg, Chili
   Servings:  1
      2 lb Hamburg
      1 ea Onion
      1 tb Butter
      2 qt Water
      2 cn Kidney beans
      1 qt Tomatoes; strained
      1 c  Cream
           Chili powder
  Fry meat and onions until done, add other ingredients, salt and pepper and
  let simmer - the longer the better. Source: Mrs. Dill Rambo, Deavertown
  Grange, Morgan County, OH
      Title: Chili
 Categories: Soups, 1941
   Servings:  6
      1 cn Beef soup
      1 c  Water
           Chili powder
      2 c  Canned kidney beans
      3 tb Tomato sauce
           Salt and pepper
  Combine beef soup, water, beans, and tomato sauce.  Heat to boiling. Add
  chili powder, salt, and pepper to taste.  Simmer 10 minutes. 6 servings.
  The Household Searchlight
      Title: Chilled Cream of Cucumber and Celery Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      2    Potatoes, diced
      1 c  Heavy cream
      1 c  Chicken bouillon
      1 ts Grated onion
      1 c  Dry white wine
      1 ts Salt
      2    Cucumbers,coarsely grated
           Freshly ground black pepper
      4    Celery stalks,coarsely
           -grated
  Cook potatoes in the bouillon and wine for 15 minutes,uncovered Cover and
  continue cooking until tender.Remove from heat and let stand, covered, for
  10 minutes.Put the potatoes and liquid through a coarse sieve.Stir in the
  cucumber and celery and all the remaining ingredients.Mix well.Chill.Serves
  about 4-6.
  Taken from Herbs and Things Jean Rose's Herbal Workman Publishing,NY 1972
      Title: Chilled Cream of Vegetable Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  6
      1 c  Chopped celery leaves
      1 md Carrot; diced
      1 sm Green bell pepper; diced
      1 c  Chopped spinach leaves
    1/2 c  Chopped parsley
      1 lg Onion; chopped
      4 c  Chicken broth
      3    Parsley sprigs
      1    Bay leaf
    1/2 ts Dried thyme
      2    Whole cloves
      1    Garlic clove
    1/4 c  Rice
           Salt, pepper
      2    Egg yolks
      2 c  Half and half
           Sour cream
           Parsley; minced
           Chives; minced
      2 md Tomatoes; peeled & chopped
  Combine celery leaves, carrot, green pepper, spinach, chopped parsley,
  onion and chicken broth in kettle. Tie parsley sprigs, bay leaf, thyme,
  cloves and garlic in small square of cheesecloth. Add to broth mixture
  along with rice. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Bring to boil, cover
  and simmer 40 minutes. Discard seasonings in cheesecloth bag. Press soup
  through fine sieve or puree in blender. Return soup to kettle and bring to
  boil. Beat egg yolks and stir a few tablespoons of soup into yolks. Stir
  yolk mixture into hot soup and cook, stirring, until smooth. Do not boil.
  Stir in half and half and simmer 2 or 3 minutes, stirring constantly.
  Remove from heat and chill thoroughly. If soup separates, stir before
  serving. Spoon into chilled soup bowls. Top each serving with dollop of
  sour cream and sprinkle with parsley, chives and chopped tomato.
  (C) 1992 The Los Angeles Times
      Title: Chilled Cranberry Soup
 Categories: Soups, Entertain
   Servings:  5
     12 oz Fresh cranberries (1 bag)
      3 c  Water
  1 1/4 c  Sugar, approximately
      2    Cinnamion sticks
      2    Allspice berries
      2    Whole cloves
      4    Black peppercorns
      1 tb Cornstarch
    1/4 c  Heavy cream
    3/4 c  Dry red wine, or to taste
  Pick the cranberries over for stems and rinse in cold water. Combine the 3
  cups of water, the sugar and the spices in a large saucepan and bring to a
  boil.  Reduce the heat and add the cranberries.  Gently simmer the soup for
  15 to 20 minutes, or until the cranberies are soft and the liquid is well
  flavored.  If necessary, add additional sugar to taste.
  Mix the cornstarch with 2 tablespoons of cold water to make a paste. Whisk
  this mixture into the soup and boil for 1 minute.  The soup should thicken
  slightly.  Let the soup cool to room temperature, then refrigerate until
  chilled.  The recipe can be prepared up to 48 hours ahead up to this stage.
  Just before serving, stir in the heavy cream and wine.  The spices can be
  left in or removed before serving.  Serve the cold cranberry soup in
  chilled glass bowls.  If you like, you can garnish each bowl with a dollop
  of sour cream.
  Makes 5 servings.
  Per Serving: 285 Calories, 0.6 g Protein, 59 g Carbohydrate, 5 g Fat, 3 g
  Saturated Fat, 16 mg Cholesterol, 28 mg Sodium
  [THE WASHINGTON POST; November 7, 1990]
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Chilled Fruit Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      6 oz Red currants
      6 oz Black currants
      6 oz Cranberries
  1 1/2 c  Med.-dry white wine
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1    (2-inch) cinnamon stick
           Finely grated peel and juice
           -of 1 orange
  1 1/4 c  Water
      1    Tablespoon. creme de cassis
           -liqueur
    2/3 c  Dairy sour cream
           Black currant leaves to
           -decorate with
  In a large saucepan, bring currants, cranberries, wine, sugar, cinnamon,
  orange peel and juice and water to boil. Lower heat, and cook gently until
  fruit is tender, about 15 mins. Discard cinnamon stick. In blender or food
  processor, puree fruit and liquid. press a nylon sieve to remove seeds.
  Cool, then refrigerate 1 1/2 hrs. Stir creme de cassis into soup, then pour
  into 4 to 6 chilled bowls. carefully place a spoonful of sour cream on each
  serving, and use a skewer, feather the sour cream attractively. Decorate
  with black currant leaves and serve immediately. Makes 4 to 6 servings.
      Title: Chilled Leek and Potato Soup
 Categories: Vegetarian, Soups
   Servings:  2
 12 1/2 g  Butter
  1 1/2 lg Leeks, sliced
112 1/2 g  Potatoes, diced/peeled
    300 ml Vegetable stock
112 1/2 g  Greek yoghurt
           Seasoning
      1 tb Fresh chives
  1. Melt the butter in a pan, then add the leeks and fry gently for about
     5 minutes without browning. Add the potatoes, stock and seasoning.
     Bring to the boil, cover and simmer for about 20 minutes or until
     tender.
  2. Allow the soup to cool slighlty, then sieve or whizz in a food
     processor until smooth/ Trangfer to a large bowl,cover and
     chill thoroughly.
  3. To serve, stir most of the yoghurt into the soup. Adjust the
     seasoning, spoon a dollop of the remaining yoghurt into each
     bowl and sprinkle with the chives.
  Per serving: 130 calories High fat High saturated fat Medium protein High
  fibre High sodium
      Title: Chilled Pea Pod Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      2 lb Fresh green pea pods
    1/2 c  Unsalted butter
      8    Thinly sliced green onions
      2 qt Chicken broth
      2 tb Minced fresh tarragon
     16    Leaves romaine lettuce
    1/2 c  Creme fraiche
           Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
      1 pn Sugar
  Serving Size : 8
  fresh lemon juice creme fraiche fresh sprigs tarragon garnish steamed fresh
  green pea
  Snap ends and remove strings from pea pods.
  Melt butter in heavy large saucepan over medium heat. Saute pods and onions
  until onions are tender, about 5 minutes. Add broth and minced tarragon and
  bring to boil. Reduce heat and simmer 15 minutes. Mix in romaine and simmer
  5 minutes.
  Puree soup as finely as possible in batches in processor using on/off
  turns, about 5 minutes. Strain through fine sieve into bowl. Stir in 1/2
  cup creme fraiche. Season with salt, pepper and sugar or lemon juice if
  desired.
  Cool to room temperature. Cover and refrigerate until well chilled, at
  least 4 hours. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead.)
  Just before serving, ladle soup into individual bowls. Top with dollop of
  creme fraiche and fresh tarragon sprig. Garnish with fresh peas if desired.
      Title: Chilled Raspberry Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings: 12
           Jim Vorheis
  1 1/2 tb Unflavored gelatin
    1/3 c  Cold water
    3/4 c  Hot water
     30 oz Frozen raspberries, thawed
  3 1/2 c  Sour cream (28-oz)
  1 1/3 c  Pineapple juice
  1 1/3 c  Half and half
  1 1/3 c  Dry sherry
    1/3 c  Grenadine
      2 tb Lemon juice
           Mint
           Whole raspberries
  Soak gelatin in cold water for 5 minutes.  Stir in hot water and dissolve
  over low heat.  Push raspberries through a strainer to remove seeds, then
  puree.  Combine all ingredients and place in a glass bowl. Cover and
  refrigerate overnight.  Garnish with mint and/or whole raspberries.
  Colorado Cache Cookbook (1978) From the collection of Jim Vorheis
      Title: Chilled Red Pepper Soup
 Categories: Soups, Tabasco
   Servings:  8
-------------------------------SOUP------------------------------------
     42 oz Roasted red peppers
           - (water-packed) rinsed,
           - blotted dry, with all
           - black bits removed
      3 lg Garlic cloves
           - peeled and split
      4 c  Chicken stock
  2 1/2 c  Buttermilk
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 tb Salt; or to taste
      4 c  Frozen or fresh corn kernels
    3/4 c  Minced pickled nopales
           -(See NOTE)
      1 tb Finely chopped fresh oregano
           -=OR=- Coriander
      3 ds Tabasco sauce, to taste
      8 oz Low- or non-fat yogurt
           - for garnish
      2 ts Minced fresh oregano
           -=OR=- Coriander
           - for garnish
----------------------HERBED TORTILLA CRISPS---------------------------
      3 lg Flour tortillas
           - cut into 12 sections each
      2 tb Vegetable oil
    1/2 ts Dried oregano
      1 tb Grated Parmesan cheese
  IN THE BOWL of a food processor fitted with a steel chopping blade, combine
  the peppers and garlic, and puree until smooth. Scrape the mixture into a
  large non-aluminum bowl. Add the chicken stock, buttermilk, sugar, salt,
  corn, nopales, oregano, and Tabasco, and stir to blend. Cover and chill for
  at least 1 hour. In a small bowl, combine the yogurt and oregano. Cover and
  refrigerate.
  TO MAKE THE CRISPS: Turn on your broiled, and position the rack at least 5
  inches from the heat. Lightly brush the top of the tortilla wedges with
  oil. Place them on a lightly oiled cookie sheet. Sprinkle on the oregano,
  crumbling it with your fingers as you do this, then drizzle on the Parmesan
  cheese. Run them under the broiler, just to crisp and color lightly,
  watching so they do not burn. Before serving, ladle the soup into bowls.
  Add about a tablespoon of the yogurt in the center. Sprinkle on chopped
  oregano and serve with the tortilla wedges.
  NOTE: Although Tex-Mex and other Latin delicacies are now available in many
  markets across the country, pickled nopales or tender cactus leaves are
  less available than jalapeno peppers, for example. If you cannot find them,
  either chop a few pickled jalapeno peppers (with the seeds removed) or
  simply omit them.
  JOANNA PRUESS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
      Title: Chilled Red Pepper Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      1 tb Margarine or butter
      3 lg (3 cups) red, yellow or
           -orange bell peppers,
           -chopped
      1 md Onion, chopped
      1    Garlic clove, minced
      1 c  Chicken broth
      1 ts Chopped fresh thyme or 1/2
           -tsp dried thyme
      1 ds Hot pepper sauce
      1 c  Half-and-half
  Melt margarine in medium saucepan over medium-high heat.  Cook and stir
  peppers, onion and garlic until tender, about 5 minutes.  Stir in broth,
  thyme and hot pepper sauce.  Simmer 10 to 15 minutes or until most of
  liquid is absorbed and vegetables are soft.
  In food processor bowl with metal blade or blender container, combine
  pepper mixture with half-and-half; process until smooth.  Pour into large
  bowl.  Cover, refrigerate 4 hours or until thoroughly chilled. If desired,
  serve with additional half-and-half.
  8 (1/2 cup)servings. Source: Pillsbury Classic #126 posted by Linda Davis
      Title: Chilled Rhubarb Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      1 pt Fresh strawberries
      3 c  Sliced fresh or frozen
           -rhubarb, 1/2 inch pieces
  1 1/4 c  Orange juice
    1/2 c  To 1 c Sugar
  Sliced oranges Sliced kiwifruit AND/OR additional strawberries, optional
  In a 3 quart saucepan, bring strawberries, rhubarb and orange juice to a
  boil.  Reduce heat; cover and simmer for 10 minutes.  Remove from heat;
  stir in sugar to taste.  In a blender or food processor, blend half the
  fruit mixture at a time until smooth. Chill.  To serve, spoon into soup
  bowls and if desired, garnish with oranges, kiwi and/or strawberries.
  Yield: About 1 quart.
  SOURCE: *Laurel Anderson, Pinole, CA, Country Woman Magazine Mar/Apr 93
  POSTED BY: Jim Bodle 6/93
      Title: Chilled Tomato Basil Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      3 tb Unsalted butter
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      1    Onion, finely chopped
      1 md Leek, cleaned, white part
           -only, finely chopped
      1 md Carrot, finely chopped
      1 md Celery stalk, finely chopped
      2 tb Chopped fresh basil leaves
      4    Ripe medium tomatoes,
           -seeded, coarsely chopped
      3 tb Tomato paste
      2 tb Flour
  2 1/2 c  Chicken stock or broth
    1/2 c  Light cream
           Salt and pepper to taste
           Fresh basil leaves
           -(optional)
    1/4 c  Sour cream or plain yogurt
           -(optional)
  Heat butter and oil in a 2 quart saucepan; add onion, leek, carrot,celery,
  and basil; saute for about 5 minutes over low heat, stirring occasionally.
  Add tomatoes and tomato paste; cook for about 5 minutes;sprinkle with flour
  and mix well; add chicken stock, cover and simeer for about 20 minutes.
  Pour into food processor fitted with a steel blade or into blender; puree,
  strain through a fine strainer or cheesecloth.  Return to pan and add light
  cream; bring to boil and reduce heat to simmer for about 2 minutes; season
  to taste with salt and pepper; chill for at least 4 hours or up to 2 days
  in advance of serving.  Garnish bowls with basil leaves and a dollop of
  sour cream or yogurt if desired.  Makes 4-6 servings.
  Origin: Appeal (quarterly publication from Overwaitea Foods) Shared by:
  Sharon Stevens.
      Title: Chocolate Soup with Whipped Cream
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
  5 3/4 c  Milk
      4    Egg yolks
    1/2 lb Semisweet chocolate, grated
      1 c  Heavy cream
           Chocolate or mint cordial
      2 ts Flour
    2/3 c  Sugar
  Bring the milk and grated chocolate to a boil in a large saucepan.  Mix 1
  or 2 Tbsp. of the hot chocolate milk with the flour, and add to the soup as
  it boils.  Stir in the sugar and remove from the stove.  Add the egg yolks,
  stirring constantly, and return to low heat only long enough to warm the
  soup.
  Serve hot or cold in small bowls as a special dessert, with a dollop of
  whipped cream and a few sprinkles of chocolate or mint cordial. Serves 8
  From: The New York Times Bread and Soup Cookbook Shared By: Pat Stockett
      Title: Chop Suey
 Categories: Soups, 1941
   Servings:  6
    1/2 lb Pork, diced
    1/2 lb Veal, diced
  1 1/2 c  Diced celery
      2 tb Flour
      1 c  Water
      1 c  Diced onions
      3 tb Chop suey sauce
      2 tb Butter or butter substitute
           Salt and pepper
  Combine pork and veal.  Fry until tender and brown.  Add vegetables, water,
  and butter.  Cover.  Simmer until vegetables are tender. Combine flour and
  chop suey sauce.  Mix to a smooth paste. Add to first mixture. Stir until
  blended.  Season to taste. Simmer 15 minutes. 6 servings.
  Mrs. Bertha V. Hull, Alton, MO.
      Title: Chow Down Chowder
 Categories: Soups, Low-cal, Vegetables
   Servings:  6
 14 1/2 oz Chicken Broth
      1 c  Broccoli, Frozen, Cut
      1 c  Mushrooms, Fresh, Sliced
    1/2 c  Onion, Chopped
      1 tb Margarine
      2 tb Flour, All-Purpose
 13 1/2 oz Evaporated Skim Milk
      8 oz Corn, Whole Kernal, Drained
      1 tb Pimiento, Chopped
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
  In a samll saucepan bring broth and broccoli to boil.  Reduce heat; cover
  and simmer for 5 minutes.  Do not drain.  Set aside.  In a large saucepan
  cook mushrooms and  onions in margarine till tender.  Stir in flour, salt,
  and pepper.  Add milk all at once.  Cook and stir until bubbly.  Cook and
  stir 1 minute more.  Stir in broccoli with broth, corn, and pimiento; heat
  through.
      Title: Chow Mein
 Categories: Soups, 1941
   Servings:  6
      1 lb Diced lean pork, veal, or
           -chicken
      2 c  Diced celery
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Corn-starch
      2 c  Chow mein noodles
      2 c  Water or meat stock
    1/2 c  Diced onions
      2 c  Canned bean sprouts
      2 tb Soy sauce
    1/3 c  Cooking fat
  Fry meat 5 minutes in cooking fat.  Add water or stock.  Cover. Simmer
  until meat is tender.  Add celery and onion.  Simmer 10 minutes. Moisten
  corn-starch in a little water.  Add to first mixture. Add bean sprouts and
  soy sauce.  Season to taste.  Heat thoroughly. Serve over noodles. 6
  servings.
  The Household Searchlight
      Title: Christmas Oyster Soup (Soupe Aux Huitres De Noel)
 Categories: Soups, Canadian, Entertain
   Servings:  4
      2    Carrots; mediun
           -peeled & grated in long,
           -thin shreds
    1/2 c  Celery; finely diced
    1/4 c  Butter; melted
      4 c  Milk; or 1/2 milk, 1/2 cream
      4 c  Oysters
           -salt and pepper to taste
  Peel and grate in long thin shreads, the carrots and add finely diced
  celery. Melt butter in saucepan and add the vegetables. Stir. Cover and
  simmer over very low heat for 20 minutes, without browning the vegetables.
  Add milk (or use 1/2 milk, 1/2 cream); bring to a boil. Heat oysters in
  enamelled cast iron pan over medium heat; do not boil. Pour into milk and
  serve. Uase salt and pepper to taste.
  The soup should be served as soon as ready, otherwise it tend to curdle.
  The milk and vegetables can be be prepared ahead of time and the oysters
  heated and served at the last minute.
  To quote Mme. Benoit,"This traditional Quebec dish is still very much
  alive.  My grandmother's recipe is, as far as I am concerned, the best
  there is." Note: from Anne - it seems as oysters were used at Christmas. My
  maternal grandmother from the American midwest had a similar Christmas
  oyster dish although hers included corn.
  Source: _My Grandmother's Kitchen" by Mme. Benoit
      Title: Christmas Borscht
 Categories: Vegetables, Soups, Entertain
   Servings:  8
     32 oz Beets, diced canned
      3 c  Water
      1    Celery stalk
      1    Carrot, quartered
      1    Bay leaf
      1    Garlic clove, peeled
    1/4 ts Peppercorns, whole
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Sugar
           Dairy sour cream or dill
           -sprigs
  Drain beets reserving liquid.  Set beets aside.  In a large saucepan
  combine beet liquid, water, celery, carrot, bay leaf, garlic, peppercorns
  and salt.  Bring to a boil.  Cover, reduce heat and simmer for 15 minutes.
  Remove vegetables and seasonings with a slotted spoon.  Stir in reserved
  diced beets, lemon juice and sugar.  Continue cooking for 10 minutes or
  until heated through.  Serve topped with sour cream and/or dill sprigs.
  Makes 8 servings.
  Tops Grocery Store Ad flyer.  November 12, 1991 "Polish Christmas Eve"
  Posted by Jean Cody. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Chunky Garden Gazpacho
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  5
     15 oz Can Tomato Sauce
      2 tb Olive Oil
      2 tb Red Wine Vinegar
      1 tb Honey
      1 md Tomato, Cut In 1/2" Cubes
      1 md Green Pepper, Chopped
      1 sm Sweet Red Pepper, Chopped
           Stalk Celery, Chopped
           Clove Garlic, Finely Minced
    1/2 x  Cucumber, Seeded & Chopped
           Scallion, Chopped
    1/2 ts Hot Pepper Sauce
    1/2 ts Black Pepper
  GARNISH: Herbed Garlic Croutons, dollop of plain yogurt topped with finely
  minced fresh chives, finely shredded lettuce, or minced parsley, (optional)
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  In a med size mixing bowl, combine tomato sauce, olive oil, vinegar and
  honey.  Stir in remaining ingredients.  Top each serving with one of the
  above listed garnishes.  Serve chilled.  Makes 4-6 servings. VARIATIONS: -
  add 2 T chopped fresh mint leaves; omit hot pepper sauce - for a thinner
  soup, stir in tomato juice or vegetable cocktail juice to desired
  consistency. Serve with a substantial salad, and/or a cheese platter.
      Title: Chunky Gazpacho
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  2
     46 oz Can tomato juice
      1    Clove garlic, pressed
      1 tb Sugar, heaping
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Seasoned salt
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      3 tb Lemon juice
  1 1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/2 ts Liquid hot sauce
      1    Cucumber, peeled and diced
      1    Green pepper, diced
      2    Carrots, diced
      3    Celery stalks, diced
      3    To 4 green onions, diced
      3    Tomatoes, diced
  In a large mixing bowl, mix tomato juice, garlic, sugar, salt, seasoned
  salt, olive oil, lemon juice, worcestershire sauce, and hot sauce.  Mix
  until oil and seasonings are dissolved.  Pour into a large refrigerator
  pitcher.  Stir chunky vegetables into juice mixture and add diced fresh
  tomatoes.  Chill overnight or 4 hours.  Serve cold with seasoned croutons
  on top.
  Yield:  12 servings
  From:  "Celebrate San Antonio - A Cookbook" by the San Antonio Junior
  Forum, 1986.  ISBN 0-961917-0-0 Posted by: Karin Brewer, Cooking Echo, 8/92
      Title: Chunky Peanut Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
      2 tb Unsalted butter
      1 md Onion, peeled and diced
      2 md Carrots, peeled and diced
      8 c  Chicken stock
      1 c  Unsalted crunchy peanut
           -butter
      1 sm Tomato, quartered
      4 sm Potatoes, peeled and cubed
      1 sm Green pepper, roasted,
           -cored, seeded, peeled, and
           -diced
      3 tb Minced fresh parsley
      1 lg Zucchini, trimmed and diced
      1 c  Button mushrooms, stems
           -drimmed, caps diced
      1 lb Firm white fish such as
           -halibut or snapper, bones
           -removed,
           Cut into bite-sized pieces
      1 c  Fresh peas
      3 tb Freshly squeezed lemon juice
  Info:  from Farm House Cookbook, Susam Herrmann Loomis, 1991
  Sidedish:  Serve with freshly baked bread. Wine: Chardonnay such as Raymond
  California Select 1989
  Makes 8 to 10 servings.
  salt cayenne pepper
  1.  Melt the butter in a large stockpot over medium heat.  When it is hot,
  add the onion and carrots and cook, stirring constantly, until the onion
  begins to turn translucent, about 5 minutes.
  2.  Meanwhile, mix 1 cup of the stock with the peanut butter in a
  medium-sized bowl until smooth.
  3.  Add the remaining 7 cups chicken stock to the vegetables.  Stir, and
  add the tomato, potatoes, roasted pepper, and 2 Tablespoons of the parsley.
  Pour in the peanut butter mixture, and stir.  Cover and bring almost to a
  boil.  Simmer, partially covered, until the potatoes are cooked through,
  about 15 minutes.  Then add the zucchini and the mushrooms, stir, and
  continue cooking until the zucchini is tender but still has texture, about
  10 minutes.  Stir in the fish and the peas, and cook until the fish is
  opaque and the peas are still bright green, 5 to 7 minutes. Add the lemon
  juice, stir, and season to taste with salt and cayenne pepper.
  4.  Ladle the peanut soup into warmed soup bowls, garnish with the
  remaining 1 Tablespoon parsley, and serve immediately.
      Title: Chunky Pizza Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      1 tb Oil; vegetable
      1    Onion; chopped small
    1/2 c  Mushrooms; sliced
    1/4 c  Green peppers; slivered
      1 c  Tomatoes; undrained
      1 c  Stock; beef
      1 c  Pepperoni; thin sliced
    1/2 ts Basil; dried
      1 c  Cheese; mozzarella shredded
  Preheat oven broiler. Heat oil over medium heat, stirfry onion, mushroom
  and green pepper till soft, not browned. Add tomatoes, stock, pepperoni and
  basil, cook till heated through. Ladle soup into ovenproof bowls and
  sprinkle with cheese. Broil till cheese melts and is bubbly.
  Source: Canadian Living magazine posted by Anne MacLellan
      Title: Chunky Potato-Leek Soup
 Categories: Vegetables, Soups, Microwave
   Servings:  4
      1 c  Sliced leeks
      2 ts Reduced-calorie margarine
      2 c  Low-sodium chicken broth
      6 oz Cubed pared potatoes
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Black pepper
      1 c  Drained canned corn
      2 tb Chopped fresh dill
      2 ts Grated Parmesan cheese
      3    Drops liquid red pepper
           -sauce
  1.  Combine the leeks and margarine in a 2-quart casserole. Microcook on
  High for 3 to 4 minutes, stirring once, until tender.
  2.  Add the broth, potatoes, salt and pepper.  With vented cover, microcook
  on High, for 4 minutes, stirring twice.
  3.  Add the corn, dill, Parmesan cheese , and pepper sauce; stir well. With
  vented cover, microcook on High for 3 to 4 minutes until potatoes are
  tender.  Let stand, covered, for 3 minutes before serving.
  Makes 4 servings.
  Per Serving: 111 Calories; 4 g Protein; 2 g Fat; 211 mg Sodium 20 g
  Carbohydrates; 1 mg Cholesterol
  [WEIGHT WAtCHERS MAGAZINE; Jan 1990]
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Chunky Vegetable Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetarian, Vegetables
   Servings:  5
  1 1/2 c  Water
      4    Green onions
      3    Asparagus spears
      1 md Zucchini; quartered lengthw
           -ise
      1    Broccoli stalk; peeled & qu
           -artered lengthwise
      1 c  Milk; approximate
    1/4 c  Butter; (1/2 stick)
      1 md Onion; finely chopped
      1    Celery stalk; finely choppe
           -d
      2 tb Flour; all purpose
           Salt and freshly ground pepp
           -er
           Cilantro sprigs; optional
      Bring 1-1/2 cups water to boil in base of steamer.  Place green onions,
  asparagus, zucchini and broccoli on steamer rack.  Cover and cook until
  vegetables are just tender, about 5 minutes.  Transfer vegetables to plate
  and cool.  Reserve steaming water. Add enough milk to reserved steaming
  water to measure 2 cups liquid.  Dice vegetables and then set aside.
      Melt butter in heavy large skillet or Dutch oven over medium-low heat.
  Add onion and celery and cook until tender, stirring occasionally.
      Meanwhile, bring milk mixture to simmer.  Stir into skillet. Bring to
  boil, stirring constantly.  Add diced vegetables to soup and heat through.
  Season with salt and pepper.  Garnish with cilantro and serve.
  Bon Appetit, May, 1988.
      Title: Chunky Vegetable Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  9
      1    Onion, chopped
      2    Celery stalks, chopped
      3    Carrots, chopped
     16 oz Can tomatoes, undrained and
           -coarsely chopped
      2 c  Thinly sliced cabbage
     29 oz Chicken broth
      2 c  Water
      1 ts Dried basil
    1/2    Dried oregano
      2 md Zucchini, thinly sliced
      1 c  Pasta shells
      1 c  Frozen green peas
  Salt to taste
  In a large pot, place undrained tomatoes, onion, celery, cabbage, chicken
  broth, water, basil and oregano.  Bring to a boil over high heat; reduce
  heat, cover, and simmer for 30 minutes.  Bring soup to gentle boil and add
  zucchini, pasta and peas.  Cover and cook for 15 minutes or until pasta is
  done.  Add salt to taste.
  Makes 9 1-cup servings.
  Posted by Susan Barrington. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Cincinnati 5 Way Chili
 Categories: Soups
   Servings: 10
      2 tb Butter
      2 lb Ground beef
      6    Bay leaves
      1 lg Onion; finely chopped
      6 md Garlic cloves
           - finely chopped
      1 ts Cinnamon
      2 ts Allspice
      4 ts Vinegar
      1 ts Dried whole red pepper
           -(crushed)
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Pure ground red chile
      1 ts Ground cumin
    1/2 ts Dried oregano
           -(preferably Mexican)
      6 oz Tomato paste
      6 c  Water
     16 oz Kidney beans; drained
    1/2 lb Vermicelli; cooked
    1/2 c  Cheddar cheese, grated
      1 sm Onion; finely chopped
  HEAT THE BUTTER IN A LARGE HEAVY SKILLET over medium-high heat. Add the
  meat to the skillet. Break up any lumps with a fork and cook, stirring
  occasionally, until the meat is evenly browned. Stir in all the remaining
  ingredients up through the water. Taste and adjust seasonings. If the
  flavor is too sweet, add a small amount of vinegar; if not spicy enough,
  add a small amount of ground chile. Bring the mixture to a boil, then lower
  the heat and simmer, uncovered, for 2 to 4 hours. Add the kidney beans to
  the mixture 1/2 hour before serving. Place a small amount of the cooked
  vermicelli in individual bowls. Spoon on a generous amount of chili. Top
  with grated cheese and raw onion or pass in individual bowls.
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
      Title: Cinnamon Peach Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      2 lb Ripe peaches
      3    Whole cloves
      3    Allspice berries
      3    Cardamom pods
      2 c  Freshly squeezed orange
           -juice
      3 tb Fresh lime juice, or to
           -taste
      3 tb To 4 tb honey or brown sugar
           -(or to taste)
      1 ts Ground cinnamon
      1 ts Ground ginger
      1 c  Nonfat yogurt
      1 tb Diced candied ginger
           Sprigs of fresh mint,
           -for garnish
  Drop the peaches in a pot of boiling water and boil for 30 seconds. Rinse
  them under cold water and slip off the skins. Pit the peaches and coarsely
  chop them. Tie the cloves, allspice, and cardamom in cheesecloth (or wrap
  in foil and pierce with fork). Combine the peaches, spice bundle, orange
  juice, lime juice, honey, cinnamon, and ginger in a heavy saucepan. (The
  amount of honey needed well depend on the sweetness of the peaches.) Simmer
  for 5-10 minutes, or until the fruit is very soft. Remove the spice bundle
  and let the soup cool to room temperature. Puree the soup in a blender and
  chill.  Just before serving, whisk in the yogurt and candied ginger.
  Correct the seasoning,adding honey and lime juice to taste. Serve in glass
  bowls or wine goblets, garnishing each with a sprig of mint. Serves 4-6.
  Origin: Cookbook Digest July/August Shared by: Sharon Stevens.
      Title: Citrus Berry Soup (Weight Watchers Magazine)
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
  1 1/2 c  Blueberries
      1 c  Plain lowfat yogurt
    1/2 c  Orange juice
      2 tb Light sour cream (25 cal per
           -tablespoon)
      1 tb Grated lemon peel
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
  Posted by: Valerie Whittle Serves: 4 (1/2 cup each)
  In food processor, combine all ingredients; process until smooth.  Chill
  soup at least 30 minutes before serving. Each 1/2 cup serving provides: 1/2
  M, 1 FR, 15 C Per serving: 94 cal, 4 g pro, 2 g fat, 16 g car, 43 mg sod, 6
  mg chol
      Title: Clam Chowder
 Categories: Soups, Clams, Potatoes
   Servings:  4
      1 qt Steamed Softshell Clams
      1    Onion
      3 md Potatoes, Diced
      2 tb Chopped Parsley
    1/4 lb Butter
      2 c  Milk
           Salt And Pepper To Taste
  Melt butter, add onion and cook until tender but not brown.  Add potatoes
  and just enough water to cook potatoes.  When potatoes are tender add
  parsley, salt and pepper, and clams with their juice.  Just before serving
  add 2 cups milk and heat but do NOT boil.
      Title: Clam Chowder, Manhattan Style
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
     36    Live clams
      3 tb Butter
    3/4 lb Pork, diced
      4    Onions, chopped
      4    Tomatoes, chopped
  2 1/2 c  Chopped celery
  1 1/2 c  Chopped carrots
      3 ts Fresh parsley
      3 ts Basil
    1/2 ts Thyme
      1    Bay leaf
      3    Cloves garlic, diced
      1 tb Soy sauce
  2 1/2 qt Liquid (clam cooking broth
           + water
      4    Potatoes, diced
  Place clams in  soup kettle, cover with water, and steam open.  Remove
  clams from their shells, and mince fine; reserve. Strain clam liquid and
  reserve. Saute pork and onions in butter until onions are clear. Add
  tomatoes and simmer 5 minutes, stirring. Add celery, carrots, parsley,
  basil, thyme, bay leaf, garlic and soy sauce. Stir in correct amount of
  liquid (clam cooking water plus additional water, if needed); simmer,
  covered, 1 hour.  Add potatoes and simmer 15 minutes. Add clams and simmer
  another 8 minutes. Adjust seasonings if necessary. Serve immediately, with
  crackers.
      Title: Clam Chowder, New England Style
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
     24    Clams
      3 c  Water
    1/2 lb Pork, diced
      3 tb Butter
      1    Onion, sliced
      3    Potatoes, diced
  1 3/4 c  Half & half
      1 tb Soy sauce
      2    Cloves garlic, crushed
      1 ts Basil
      1 ts Parsley
      1 ts Thyme
  Combine clams, their liquid and water; bring to a boil.  Drain clams,
  reserving liquid.  Remove clams from shells; chop meat; set aside.  In
  butter, fry pork with onions, until onions are clear.  Add potatoes and
  liquid from clams; simmer 20 minutes.  Stir in half & half, seasonings, and
  clams.  Heat through.  Serve hot.
      Title: Clam Chowder
 Categories: Penn-dutch, Soups
   Servings:  1
     25    Clams
    1/2 lb Salt pork, finely chopped
      4    Onion, sliced
      3 tb Flour
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Water, boiling
      6    Potato, diced
      8 c  Milk
      2 tb Butter
    1/2 ts Pepper
  Scrub clam shells well to remove all sand. Lay in the bottom of a large
  kettle and cover with the boiling water. Cover the kettle and let steam
  about 15 minutes. Open the clams, saving all the liquor. Chop clams. Fry
  the pork about 5 minutes. Add the potatoes, onions and clam liquor, and
  cook about 15 minutes. Then add the clams and boil for 20 minutes. Melt the
  butter, add the flour and blend, stir in the milk and cook about 10
  minutes. Add seasonings. Combine both mixtures and serve at once. Source:
  Pennsylvania Dutch Cook Book - Fine Old Recipes, Culinary Arts Press, 1936.
      Title: Clam Chowder
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  1
    1/2 lb Bacon
      1 lg Onion chopped
      2    Ribs celery peeled and
           Diced
      5 sm Can minced clams OR
      1 lg Can (about 51-oz)
      2 ts Seafood Chesapeake brand
           Bay-style seafood
           Seasoning
      1 qt (4 cup) half and half
           Divided
      2 tb Flour
  The day before you wish to serve the soup, fry the bacon until crisp and
  remove. In bacon drippings, saute onion, celery with leaves and potatoes
  for 10-15 minutes at medium heat. Add the minced clams, not clam soup but
  clams, with their juice. Crumble the bacon and add. Cover soup and simmer
  over low heat, stirring occasionally, for several hours - up to five hours
  won't hurt. Cool down and place in refrigerator at night. On the day of
  serving, skim grease off top. Transfer soup to larger pot. Heat soup until
  bubbling and add the seafood seasoning. Mix 2 cups of the half and half
  with the flour. Add to the chowder and stir until it bubbles again. Mix in
  remaining half and half and simmer, stirring constantly, until soup is
  desired thickness. Serve hot with garlic bread and a green salad.
      Title: Clam Chowder, New England Style
 Categories: Soups, Seafood
   Servings:  6
      1 lg Ham hock
      2 c  Diced onion
      2 lb Chopped clams
      2 c  Diced celery
  3 1/2 c  Water
           Roux mixture
      2 tb Oil
           Milk to thin
      1 ts White pepper
      2    Cloves crushed garlic
           ROUX:
    1/2 c  Clarified butter
    1/2 c  Water
      1 c  Flour
      2 tb Clam juice
  Saute onions and celery in 2 Tbs of oil that has been heated in a large
  dutch oven.  Add remanining ingredients except milk and roux mixture. Place
  dutch oven in a 325 F oven for 2 hours.
  Remove ham hock and strip skin and meat from bone.  Grind meat and return
  to stock.
  Add roux to stock, stirring constantly until well combined.  Let mixture
  set overnight.  Re-heat and add milk to desired consistancy.
  Yields about 1 gallon.
  Roux: Mix all ingrediants together to make a medium thick paste. Add to
  stock.
  Posted by Bob Blaylock. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Clam Chowder
 Categories: Soups, Seafood
   Servings:  8
      1 qt Shucked clams and their
           -liquor
    1/4 lb Salt pork, diced
      2    Onions, finely sliced
      6    Medium-sized potatoes,
           -sliced thin
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      4 c  Milk
      2 tb Butter
  Info:  from The Old Farmer's Almanac Colonial Cookbook ISBN 0-911658-81-5
  LCCC#: 75-41662
  Rinse the clams in clam liquor.  Remove the black caps.  Strain, and
  reserve 1/2 cup clam liquor.  Chop the clams and set aside.  Fry the salt
  pork until brown and crisp.  Drain on paper.  Saute' the onion slices, then
  add the potatoes.  Sprinkle with salt and pepper.  Saute' for 10 minutes.
  Add the chopped clams and 1/2 cup clam liquor.  Cover with water and cook
  for 20 minutes.  Add the fried pork and fat to the clams and vegetables.
  Then heat the milk and add to the chowder.  Add butter, season to taste,
  and serve.
  Serves 8.
  Posted by Perry Lowell. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Clear Tomato Consomme
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
           Jim Vorheis
      1    1-lb, 14-oz can tomatoes
     21 oz Beef bouillon
      2 c  Water
      3 tb Chopped onion
      1    Bay leaf
      1    Stalk celery
      6    Cloves
           Salt and pepper to taste
  Combine all ingredients and simmer uncovered for 30 minutes. Strain. Taste
  and correct seasoning.  Serve hot with puffed crackers. Best prepared the
  day before so flavors have a chance to mingle.
  Colorado Cache Cookbook (1978) From the collection of Jim Vorheis
      Title: Coach House Black Bean Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
           Jim Vorheis
      1 lb Black beans
  2 1/2 qt Water
      5    Strips bacon, cut in small
           -pieces
      2    Stalks celery, chopped
      2    Medium-size onions, chopped
      2 tb Flour
           Rind and bone from smoked
           -ham
           OR 2  smoked ham hocks,
           -split
      3 lb Beef bones
      3    Sprigs parsley
      2    Bay leaves
      2    Cloves garlic, halved
      2    Carrots, cut in pieces
      2    Parsnips, chopped
    1/4 ts Ground pepper
      2 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Madeira
      2    Hard cooked eggs
           Lemon slices, sprinkled
           -with parsley
  Wash beans, cover with cold water and soak overnight.  Drain and wash
  again.  Place them in a casserole and add 2 1/2 quarts water. Cover and
  simmer 90 minutes.  Cook bacon in heavy kettle for a few minutes. Add
  celery and onion and cook until tender; do not brown. Blend in flour and
  cook, stirring for 1 minute. Add ham and beef bones, parsley, bay leaves,
  garlic, carrots, parsnips, pepper, salt and beans with the cooking liquid.
  Cover and simmer over low heat, stirring occasionally, for 4 hours. Add
  more water if necessary.  Remove bone and ham rind or hocks and blend half
  of the soup in blender.  Remove any meat from ham bone or hocks, chop fine
  and return to soup.  Add blended soup. Add wine and chopped eggs. Mix well.
  Garnish with lemon.
  Colorado Cache Cookbook (1978) From the collection of Jim Vorheis
      Title: Cock-A-Leekie
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      8    Pieces of frying chicken (A
           -3 to 4-pound chicken should
           -do it.)
  Cock-a-Leekie
  A pound of beef shanks, hacked into stewing size  (about 1") 6 cups of
  chicken stock.  (Canned is ok, but it's better if you make your own ahead
  of time.) 3 slices of thick bacon or maybe salt pork, diced pretty fine. 1
  Tblsp dried thyme.  (Whole is better!) 1 bay leaf 3/4 cup pearl barley.
  (The kind you use in soup.) 1 1/2 cups of leeks. (Rinse and chop white
  parts only.) Salt and pepper as you require.
  You're going to need an 8-quart or better casserole that can stand up to
  the stove burners.  Bring the whole thing to a boil, (leave out the barley,
  leeks, salt and pepper.)  Simmer covered for 30 minutes. Meanwhile, in
  another part of the forest, bring the barley to a boil in 1 1/2 cups of
  water for 10 min., drain and set it aside.  Debone the chicken when it's
  done and set it aside. Add the leeks to the pot along with the barley and
  simmer for 15 minutes. (Still with me?)  Then debone the beef and chop
  coarsely.  Dump the beef and the chicken back in the pot and simmer,
  covered, for 5 min. Garnish with chopped fresh parsley.  Sing "Men of
  Harlech."   Pour a single malt.  Serve.
  And, if you're not up to Cock-a-Leekie ... In "A Moveable Feast" (sic)
  Ernest Hemingway offers the following leek recipe: Trim leeks, leaving just
  a smidgen of green and rinse them. Steam them for about 20 minutes or boil
  them for about the same time, until they are reasonably tender. Meanwhile,
  mix equal parts of extra-virgin olive oil and wine vinegar with a whisk in
  a bowl. When leeks are cooked, cut into quarters lengthwise and put them in
  a bowl of the oil/vinegar mix.  They should be just covered by the mix.
  Cover the bowl and put in refrigimagrator for an hour or so. (Overnight is
  even better, but St. David's Day is already upon us.)  Then dust them with
  a healthy dose of fresh-ground pepper and serve as a salad or side dish.
  Source CIS Sailing Forum Contributed by: Pete Porro
      Title: Cocka-Leeke Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      6    Leeks washed and trimmed
      2 c  Cooked chicken breast
      4 tb Butter
      2 qt Chicken broth
      4    Stalks of celery sliced
      1    Egg yolk
      2    Carrots cleaned and sliced
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Pepper
  1. Slice cleaned leeks into 1/2" slices. Melt butter in a large skillet and
  add leeks, carrots, and celery, cook until lightly browned.
  2. Add all but 2 cups of chicken broth from the boiled chicken to the
  skillet.
  3. Add the chicken breast cut up into small cubes.
  4. Cover and simmer for approx 2 hours.
  5. In the 2 cups of chicken broth you saved add the egg yolk to it and mix
  well. Add this to the skillet and continue cooking for another 3 mins.
      Title: Cold Avocado Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      1 lg Ripe Avocado
    1/2 c  Chilled Half And Half Or
           -Whipping Cream
  1 1/2 c  Chilled Regular-Strength
           -Chicken Broth
      1 tb Lemon Juice
  You'll find this velvety green soup a perfect starter for warm weather
  meals.  Try it with grilled chicken or a juicy steak at dinner time, or
  serve it with sandwiches for lunch.
  Yield: 4 Servings Preparation Time: About 7 Minutes
  Salt
  Snipped Chives Or Watercress Sprigs (Optional)
  Pit and peel the avocado, then cut into chunks.  In a blender, whirl the
  avocado, half and half, broth and lemon juice until smooth.  (To prepare in
  a food processor, whirl the avocado with the half and half until pureed
  then add the broth and lemon juice and whirl until smooth.)
  Ladle the soup into wide shallow bowls.  Garnish each portion with chives,
  if desired.
  Per Serving: 151 Calories, 3 Grams Protein, 7 Grams Carbohydrates, 14 Grams
  Total Fat, 11 Mg Cholesterol, 389 Mg Sodium
  From Sunset's Quick And Easy Cookbook Copyright 1991
      Title: Cold Avocado and Buttermilk Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
    1/3 c  Coarsely chopped sweet
           -onion, such as Vidalia
  2 1/2 c  Cold chicken broth, all fat
           -removed
      3    Thoroughly ripe avocados
  1 1/2 c  Buttermilk
      1    Drop almond extract
           -(optional)
      1 pn Of sugar (optional)
           Salt to taste
      2    Jalapeno peppers, seeds and
           -veins removed, diced
      3    To 5 tablespoons minced
           -cilantro
  Crisp tortilla chips to accompany
  Place the onions in a blender or processor and add 1 cup of the Puree as
  fine as possible. Peel and chunk in 2 1/2 of the avocados, reserving the
  remaining half for garnish. Puree again, adding broth as necessary.
  Transfer the soup to a large bowl. Add any remaining broth the buttermilk
  to the blender and whir briefly to pick as much avocado as possible. Add to
  the soup, along with the extract and sugar, if desired. Both of these
  rather surprising ingredients enhance avocado when used in tiny amounts.
  Stir well, taste and adjust the salt. The soup may be made to this in
  advance and refrigerated several hours, but for best flavor allow it to
  warm up a bit before serving. It should be cold but not icy.
  Peel the remaining half avocado cut into very thin slices. Divide
  soup-among six serving bowls and top with the sliced avocado, and
  coriander. Serve accompanied by the tortilla chips.
  From the San Francisco Examiner, 6/2/93.
  Posted by Stephen Ceideburg
      Title: Cold Avocado Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
      5    Ripe avocados, peeled and
           -coarsely chopped
      2 c  Chicken broth
    1/4 c  Chopped onion
      2 c  Half and half
      1 ts Salt
      1 pn White pepper
      2 ts Lemon juice
  Lemon slices to garnish
  Combine avocados and broth in blender.  Blend until smooth.  Place in a
  bowl you can cover.  Add onions, stir in half and half, salt, and pepper.
  cover and refrigerate overnight.  Before serving, stir in lemon juice.
  Garnish with lemon slices.
  Makes 8 to 10 servings.
  Posted by Ellen Cleary. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Cold Buttermilk and Shrimp Soup
 Categories: Shrimp, Soups
   Servings:  4
      1 qt Buttermilk
      1 tb English Style Dry Mustard
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Sugar
    1/2 lb Cooked Shrimp, Chopped
      1    Cucumber, Peeled, Chopped
      2 tb Fresh Chives, Minced
  In a large bowl, whisk together the buttermilk, mustard, salt and sugar.
  Add the chopped shrimp, chopped cucumber, and chives and stir until well
  combined.  Chill the soup, covered, for 3 hours or until very cold. Garnish
  each serving with a whole shrimp and a slice of cucumber. Makes about 5
  cups. A 1944 Gourmet Magazine Favorite.
      Title: Cold Buttermilk Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
  1 1/2 lb Shrimps; cooked & chopped
    1/2    Cucumber, med; finely diced
      1 tb Dill, fresh; minced
      1 tb Mustard, prepared
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Sugar
      1 qt Buttermilk
  Mix together shrimps, cucumber and seasonings; stir in buttermilk and chill
  thoroughly.
                                     How to Cook a Wolf
                                     M.F.K. Fisher
      Title: Cold Carrot Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  2
      6    Carrots, peeled and sliced
      1 c  Canned chicken broth
      1 c  Whipping cream
    1/4 ts Ground nutmeg
  Servings 2 to 4
  Salt Plain yogurt Parsley sprigs
  Cook carrots in medium saucepan of boiling water until just tender, about
  10 minutes.  Drain.  Puree carrots with broth in blender or processor.
  Blend in cream and nutmeg.  Season with salt.  Cover and chill 30 min. (Can
  be prepared 1 day ahead.)  Ladle soup into bowls.  Top each with yogurt and
  parsley.
  Source: Bon Appetit, Too Busy to Cook posted by Linda Davis
      Title: Cold Cherry Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      2 lb Pitted Red Cherries
      1    Stick Cinnamon
      2 dr Almond Extract
      2 c  Red Wine
      2    Egg Yolks
      2 c  Water
      2    Cloves
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 tb Brandy
      1 ts Sugar
  In a pot combine the cherries, water, cinnamon, cloves, almond extract, and
  salt.  Cook until cherries are soft (if fresh or frozen), or until heated
  through (if canned).  Remove from heat.  Gently mash cherries. Add wine,
  brandy, and sugar.  Blend in egg yolks.  Cook until slightly thickened.
  Chill.
      Title: Cold Cherry Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  1
      3 c  Water
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1    Cinnamon stick
           Zest of 1 orange
      4 c  Pitted fresh tart cherries
           Or frozen unsweetened
           Cherries if using
           Unsweetened reduce sugar to
           1/4 cup
      1 tb Arrowroot/cornstarch
    1/3 c  Cream
    1/2 c  Dry red wine
  In a saucepan, combine water, sugar, cinnamon stick and orange zest; bring
  to a boil. Add cherries, reduce heat and simmer for 30 minutes. Remove
  cinnamon stick. Mix arrowroot with 2 Tb of the cherry mixture to make a
  paste and return to soup, stirring constantly while bringing to a boil.
  Reduce heat and simmer 30 minutes until thickened slightly. Mixture will
  thicken as is cools.  Chill. Before serving, stir in cream and wine. Serve
  in champagne or wine glasses to show off color. Garnish with a cinnamon
  stick and/or dollop of sour cream or yogurt.
      Title: Cold Cucumber and Spinach Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
           Jim Vorheis
      1 bn Green onions, sliced
      2 tb Butter
      4 c  Diced cucumbers
      3 c  Chicken broth
      1 c  Chopped, fresh spinach
    1/2 c  Sliced, peeled potatoes
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Lemon juice
           Freshly ground pepper to
           -taste
      1 c  Light cream
           Radishes
           Green onions
  In a saucepan, saute green onions in butter until they are softened. Add
  cucumbers, chicken broth, spinach, potatoes, salt, lemon juice and pepper.
  Simmer uncovered until the potatoes are tender. Transfer the mixture to a
  blender in batches and puree. Transfer the puree to a bowl and stir in the
  light cream.  Let soup cool and chill for several hours, or overnight.
  Garnish each serving with thin slices of radishes and/or green onions.
  Colorado Cache Cookbook (1978) From the collection of Jim Vorheis
      Title: Cold Curried Cream of Eggplant Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
  1 1/4 lb Eggplant, peeled & cut into
           -1/2" cubes
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
    1/2    Stick butter
      1 tb Curry powder
      4 c  Chicken stock
    3/4 c  Heavy cream
  Salt & white pepper
  Saute onion in butter, stir in curry powder, & cook 2 minutes. Add eggplant
  & stock, bring to a boil, then simmer, covered, for 45 minutes, or until
  eggplant is very soft. Puree in blender. Strain puree if desired (I didn't)
  & add cream, salt, & white pepper to taste. Chill at least 3 hours & serve
  very cold. Serves 4-6. This is from the New Orleans Times-Picayune Cooking
  Contest, 1980.
  ///\oo/\\\ From the hearth in Sandee's Kitchen...
      Title: Cold Gaspacho
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      1    Green pepper, diced
      4    Tomatoes, diced
      1    Onion, diced
      3    Garlic cloves, minced
      3 c  Water
    1/4 c  Wine
      3 ts Lemon juice
      1    Scallion, diced fine
  Puree all ingredients, except scallion, in blender.  Add a little more
  water if too spicy. Strain, discarding any vegetable pieces that did not
  puree fully. Chill overnight. Serve in chilled glasses or bowls with diced
  scallion floating on top.
      Title: Cold Melon Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      3 c  Coarsely chopped cantaloupe
      3 c  Coarsely chopped honeydew
      2 c  Fresh orange juice
      3 tb Honey
      2 c  Dry champagne
      1 c  Whipping cream
           Fresh mint leaves (garnish)
  Note: Melons should be RIPE.
  Finely chop 1 1/2 cups each of cantaloupe and honeydew melons.  Set aside.
  Place remaining coarsely chopped melons in blender with orange juice, lime
  juice and honey (this will only take a few seconds).  Pour into large bowl.
  Stir in champagne and reserved melon.  Cover and refrigerate until ready to
  serve.
  Pour into iced bowls.  Whip cream and use as garnish with fresh mint
  leaves.
  Makes 6 to 8 servings
  Source: Chillingsworth - Brewster, Massachusetts Favorite Restaurant
  Recipes - ISBN: 0-89535-100-5
      Title: Cold Peach Strawberry Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  5
      1    Sliced peeled peach or 1
           -nectarine, sliced
      1 c  Sliced strawberries
      1    (8-oz) carton peach or
           -strawberry yogurt
      1    To 2 tblsp. sugar
      2 tb Lemon juice
  Lemon slices Fresh mint sprigs
  In food processor, combine all ingredients except lemon slices and mint.
  Process until smooth.  Pour into medium bowl.  Cover; refrigerate for 1 to
  2 hours or until thoroughly chilled.  Spoon soup into soup bowls; garnish
  with lemon slices and mint, if desired.
  Makes 5 (1/2 cup) servings (About 90 calories per 1/2-cup)
  Recipe from Pillsbury Classic Cookbook Sensational Salads
  Posted by Susan Goldfield. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Cold Yogurt Gazpacho
 Categories: Soups, Vegetarian
   Servings:  8
      3 md Cucumbers
      6 c  Yogurt
      2 tb White vinegar
      1 tb Olive oil
      3    Garlic cloves; minced
      1 tb Finely chopped mint
  1 1/2 ts Finely chopped dill
           Salt
  Peel cucumbers and slice lengthwise into halves. Scoop out seeds from each
  half with spoon. Coarsely grate cucumbers to measure about 3 cups.
  Place yogurt in deep bowl and whisk or stir until completely smooth. Gently
  but thoroughly stir in grated cucumbers, vinegar, oil, garlic, mint and
  dill. Season to taste with salt. Refrigerate soup 2 hours or until
  thoroughly chilled. Place ice cube in each serving, if desired.
  Makes 2 to 2 1/2 quarts
  (C) 1992 The Los Angeles Times
      Title: Concentrated Beef Broth
 Categories: Soups, 1941, Text
   Servings:  6
           Text Only
  Cover beef shank with cold water.  Add 1/2 teaspoon salt.  Cover. Simmer
  until meat falls from bone.  Cool.  Remove all fat.  Heat broth to boiling.
  Add 1 bay leaf, a few grains celery salt, and chill thoroughly, and serve
  in jellied form.  If desired, this broth may be diluted to taste and used
  in any of the recipes in this volume requiring meat stock. To clear the
  broth, heat to boiling. Add 1 slightly beaten egg. Boil 1 minute. Strain.
  The Household Searchlight
      Title: Consomme De Mer
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
           Jim Vorheis
 10 1/2 oz Consomme
      1 cn Water
      8 oz Bottle clam juice
      2 ts Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
    1/2 ts Salt
  Heat the consomme, water, clam juice and lemon juice to boiling. Whip the
  cream with the salt.  Serve hot with a large dollop of cream on each
  portion.
  Colorado Cache Cookbook (1978) From the collection of Jim Vorheis
      Title: Consomme
 Categories: Soups, 1941
   Servings:  6
      2 lb Beef shank
      2 lb Veal shank
      1    Bay leaf
      1 tb Chopped parsley
           Salt and pepper
      1 qt Chicken stock
      2 tb Butter or butter substitute
      3 qt Cold water
      1    Clove
    1/4 c  Diced carrot
    1/4 c  Diced celery
      2 tb Minced onion
  Cut meat from beef shank.  Crush bone.  Combine veal, beef, and crushed
  bone.  Add water, bay leaf, 2 teaspoons salt, and clove. Cover. Simmer 2
  1/2 to 3 hours.  Skim frequently.  Add chicken stock. Add vegetables which
  have been browned in butter.  Season to taste. Cover and simmer 2 hours.
  Strain.  Clear.  Heat to boiling. Serve at once or store in refrigerator
  until needed.
  The Household Searchlight
      Title: Cool Strawberry Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      1 c  Water
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
    1/4 ts Ground allspice
      2 pt Strawberries, hulled
      2 c  Orange juice
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Dry red wine or rose' wine
           -(optional)
  FROM:      Shelley Rodgers (Jolly Rodgers:the Portuguese Pirate!
  (1:161/202))
  Makes 4 servings.
  nonfat plain yogurt (optional) lemon slices (optional)
  To prepare sugar syrup, combine water, sugar, cinnamon and allspice in
  small saucepan. Bring to boiling over medium heat. Reduce heat to
  medium-low and simmer, stirring occasionally, for 10 minutes.
  Working in batches if necessary, combine berries, orange juice, lemon juice
  and sugar syrup in food processor or blender.  Whirl until pureed.  Press
  through fine sieve into bowl.  Stir in wine, if using.  Pour into sotrage
  container and refrigerate overnight or up to 3 days.
  Serve with a dollop of yogurt and slice of lemon, if desired.
      Title: Corn & Bean Chowder
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
    1/4 c  Oil (butter)
      2 c  Sliced onions
      2 ts Minced garlic
      4 c  Corn
      4 c  Stock
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
    1/2 c  Inst milk powder
    3/4 c  Cooked beans
    1/2 ts Salt
  Heat oil in large dutch oven.  Stir fry onions and garlic till browned. Add
  3/4 of the corn, all stock and nutmeg.  Bring to a boil and simmer till
  corn is tender. Puree remaining corn with some of the stock. Add the milk
  powder to the puree. Blend puree into the soup pot with the beans and salt.
  Bring the soup to almost boiling, lower heat and simmer for a few minutes.
  Check seasonings and serve. (Optional: Add 1-2 chopped cooked potatoes to
  thicken)
  Makes 1 1/2 quarts
      Title: Corn and Ham Chowder
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      1 tb Butter
      1 ts Vegie oil
      1 md Onion; diced
      2    Shallots; diced
    3/4 c  Diced cooked ham
      3 c  Peeled, cubed raw potatoes
      1    Bay leaf
      3 tb Chopped fresh parsley
           Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
      3 c  Milk
      4 c  Fresh corn (cut from 8 cobs)
           -or 4 c frozen corn
      2 tb Flour
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh basil
           Butter
           Paprika
  In a large pot, melt butter and oil over medium heat.  Saute onion and
  shallots 5 minutes, until softened not brown. Add potatoes, 2 c water, bay
  leaf, parsley, S&P. Bring to boil, reduce heat and simmer 30 minutes until
  potatoes are JUST tender. Meanwhile warm milk in saucepan over low heat.
  Add warm milk and corn to chowder and stir well. Put the flour in small
  bowl.  Take 3 to 4 tb of hot broth from pot and mix w/flour to make a
  paste.  Slowly add to pot, whisking to make a smooth soup. Let soup simmer
  3 to 5 minutes until thickened and coorn is tender, but not soft. Remove
  form heat, stir in basil and serve with butter.
  Source:  Leftovers by Kathy Grunst.
      Title: Corn Chowder
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables, Potatoes
   Servings:  4
      1    Medium Potato Diced
      1    Onion, Chopped
     14 oz Chicken Broth
     16 oz Can Cream-Style Corn
      2 c  Milk
      2 tb Butter
      1    Egg Slightly Beaten
      8 oz Can Corn
  Saute onion in butter until golden brown.  Add broth and potato and simmer
  until potato is tender.  Add corn and milk, blend well.  Season with salt
  and pepper.  Bring to a boil.  Remove from heat.  Stir some of chowder into
  egg.  Add mixture to sauce pan and blend well. Simmer until heated through.
      Title: Corn Chowder, New England Style
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  1
    1/2 c  Flour
      8 oz Chicken stock
      1 c  Creamed corn
      3    Potatoes, small, diced and c
           -ooked until tender
    1/2 pt Milk, whole, heated
    1/2 c  Cream, light, heated
  INGREDIENTS ------------------------------------------------------------
  Chop or grind bacon.  Cook until bacon starts to render fat.  Add onions
  and saute until tender.  Add flour and mix well.  Cook without browning, 3
  to 4 minutes.  Slowly add chicken stock, stirring until smooth. Add corn,
  potatoes, milk, cream and salt and pepper to taste. Heat gently.
      Title: Corn Chowder
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  6
      3 sl Salt pork--cubed
      1 lg Onion, sliced
      4 lg Potatoes, sliced
      2 c  Water
      6 lg Soda crackers
      1 c  Milk
      2 c  Corn (fresh, canned whole
           -kernel or frozen--thawed_
      1 ts Salt
      1 ds Of Paprika
  Fry salt pork in a saucepan until crisp and lightly browned.  Stir in onion
  and cook until golden, then add potatoes and water.  Continue cooking until
  the potatoes are tender.  Crumble soda crackers into a bowl, pour in milk
  and soak.  Add to the cooked potatoes, then add corn, salt and paprika.
  Simmer over a low heat for 8 to 10 minutes.
  Posted by Bob Stein. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Corn Chowder
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      1 sm Onion, chopped fine
    1/2 c  Diced celery
    1/4 c  Diced green pepper
           Cooking oil
      1 c  Water
      1 cn Whole kernel corn
      1 cn Cream style corn
      2    To 3 small potatoes, chopped
      1 c  Milk
      1 c  Cream
      2 tb Butter
  Serves: 4
  Saute celery, onion, and green pepper in oil.  Add with kernel corn,
  potatoes, and 1 cup water, then cook until potatoes are tender.  Add the
  cream style corn, 1 cup milk, and 1 cup cream.  Let simmer for 1 hour and
  add 2 tablespoons butter.  Continue to simmer, do not boil, until ready to
  serve.
  Source:  Recipes from Maine...with love Shared by: Carol Collins 9/92
      Title: Corn Chowder
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      2 md Potatoes
    2/3 c  Celery; chopped
      1 c  Corn; whole kernel (12 oz.)
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Parsley; chopped
      2 c  Skim milk
      1 tb Margarine; or oil
      1 sm Onion; chopped
    1/4 ts Basil; dried
    1/8 ts Black pepper
  Scrub potatoes and cook them in their skins in boiling salted water until
  tender.  Drain, saving the cooking water.  Dice potatoes. Heat margarine in
  saucepan and saute celery and onion for 3 minutes. Add corn, potato cubes,
  salt, basil, parsley and pepper.  Cover and heat for 5 minutes over medium
  heat.  Stir in milk and 1 cup of the potato cooking water. Heat gently.
  From Fred Towner.
      Title: Corn Soup
 Categories: Soups, Osg
   Servings:  1
      1 cn Corn
      1 c  Water
      1 c  Milk; or cream
      1 tb Butter
  Cook corn in water for a few minutes, press through sieve, return to fire,
  add seasoning, milk and butter. Serve hot. Source: Wetsel Grange, Van Wert
  County, OH
      Title: Corn Soup
 Categories: Penn-dutch, Soups
   Servings:  1
     12    Ears Of Corn
      4    Eggs, Hard Boiled
    1/2 c  Butter
      1 tb Flour
      1 ts Parsley, Minced
  Grate the corn off six ears. Cover this with cold water and bring to a boil
  cooking about 3/4 hour. Cut the corn from the other six ears and combine
  with the grated corn. Mash the egg yolks and mix with the flour and butter.
  Slowly add the water in which the cobs have cooked and mix well. Add corn
  and the parsley and, if mixture is too thick, add enough milk to make of
  right consistency. Bring to a boil and cook for 5 minutes. Source:
  Pennsylvania Dutch Cook Book - Fine Old Recipes, Culinary Arts Press, 1936.
      Title: Corny Frank Chowder
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      1 lb Franks, cut into 1-inch
           -pieces
    1/2 c  Chopped green peppers
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      1 oz Can cream style corn
      1 c  Milk
    3/4 lb Velveeta processed cheese,
           -cubed
      1 ds Pepper
  Saute the frankfurters, peppers, onion in margarine in a 3-qt. saucepan.
  Add the remaining ingredients.  Stir until the cheese spread is melted.
  Source: Velveeta, Gram's Recipes
  Posted by Steve Herrick. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Country Cork Irish Stew
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      8    Samll lamb chops, thawed
      1    Salt and pepper
      1 tb Vegetable oil
           Parsley, bay leaves
           Peppercorns, thyme, rosemary
      1 lb Potatoes, 3  to 4 medium
      2 c  Finely shredded cabbage
      1    Medium onion, chopped
      1    Large leek white thin sliced
     12    Small white onions
  1 1/2 c  Celery stalks, diced
  1 1/2 c  Peas
           Chopped fresh parsley
  Season chops with salt and pepper.  heat oil in saucepan wide enough to
  hold all chops in a single layer.  Brown on both sides.  Spoon off any
  melted fat and add enough water to cover chops.  Bring to a boil and add
  parsley, bay leaf, peppercorns, thyme and rosemary enclosed in cheesecloth.
  Lower heat and simmer.  Meanwhile, peel potatoes and shape into bite sized
  rounds.  Chop trimmings from potatoes into small pieces.
  Add potatoes, trimmings, cabbage, onion, well-rinsed leek, white onions and
  celery to chops and liquid.  Simmer 20 minutes then add peas.  Add a little
  more water if needed during cooking.  Simmer 10 minutes more or until
  potatoes are tender.  Correct seasoning.  Garnish with parsley and serve.
      Title: Country Hearth Stew
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      1 lb Boneless beef, cubed
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 sm Onion, chopped
    1/2 ts Thyme leaves
    1/4 ts Sage leaves
      3 cn Beef broth (12 oz)
           Thick, heavy egg noodles
      1 cn VEG-ALL Mixed Vegetables,
           -with liquid (16 oz)
      8    Soda crackers, crushed
  1. Heat oil in heavy soup pot. Salt and pepper beef and saute until golden.
  2. Add onion, thyme and sage. Mix and saute another 5 minutes.
  3. Add beef stock and simmer for 30 minutes covered.
  4. Add noodles to boiling stock and cook 10 minutes.
  5. Add vegetables with liquid and simmer for 5 minutes.
  6. Divide evenly into casserole dish. Top with cracker crumbs and bake at
  350'F. for 20 minutes.
      Title: Court Bouillon
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      2 md Onions
      2 md Carrots
      2 md Celery stalks
      3 c  Dry white wine
      2 tb Salt
           BOUQUET GARNI:
      4    Parsley sprigs
      1    Bay leaf
    1/2 ts Dried thyme
  Tie the parsley, bay leaf and thyme in washed cheesecloth.  Peel and mince
  the onions and carrots.  Mince the celery.  Place the minced vegetables and
  bouquet garni in a medium stockpot.  Add the wine, salt and 8 quarts water.
  Bring to a boil, cover and simmer for 15 minutes.
  Use for poaching lobster or whole fish (simmer for about 8 minutes,
  covered)
  [COOKS; APRIL 1989] Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Crab and Asparagus Soup  (Queensland)
 Categories: Soups, Low-cal
   Servings:  2
      2 ts Reduced-calorie margarine
    1/3 c  Chopped onion
    1/3 c  Diced celery
      2 tb Finely chopped carrot
      1    Garlic clove, minced
    1/2 ts Minced shallots
      1 tb All-purpose flour
      2 c  Skim milk
      1 tb Dry sherry
    1/2    Bay leaf
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/2 ts Grated lemon peel
    1/8 ts Ground white pepper
    1/8 ts Thyme leaves
      3 oz Thawed, well drained
           -crabmeat, flaked
    1/2 c  Sliced asparagus spears
  In 1 1/2-quart saucepan heat margarine over medium-high heat until bubbly;
  add onion, celery, carrot, garlic, and shallots; saute, stirring
  occasionally, until softened, 2 to 3 minutes.  Sprinkle with flour and stir
  quickly to combine.  Gradually add milk, stirring constantly, and cook
  until sauce is smooth.  Add remaining ingredients, except crabmeat and
  asparagus and bring to a boil.  Reduce heat to low and add crabmeat and
  asparagus.  Cover and cook, stirring occasionally, until soup is thickened
  and vegetables are tender, 20 to 30 minutes.  Remove and discard bay leaf
  before serving.
  Makes 2 servings.
  [WEIGHT WATCHERS NEW INTERNATIONAL COOKBOOK] Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Crab Soup with Sherry
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      1 tb Shallot,finely minced
      2 tb Butter
      1 ts Flour
      5 c  Milk,warm
    1/4 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/8 ts White pepper
      1 lb Crab meat,flaked
      1    Egg yolk,beaten
           Salt
    1/2 c  Sherry,at room temperature
           Lightly salted whipped cream
           Paprika
  1. Saute the shallots in the butter in the top of a double boiler over
  direct heat until very soft but not browned. Stir in the flour. Add the
  warm milk slowly, stirring as added. Place over simmmering water, add
  Worcestershire sauce, pepper, and crab meat. Let cook, stirring frequently,
  over, not in, simmering water for 15-20 minutes. (May be made ahead at this
  point up to about 1 hour before serving.) Cover and keep over hot water.
  stirring occasionally.
  2. Add a little of the hot soup to the beaten egg yolks and stir mixture
  back into soup. Season to taste with salt. Add the sherry and heat to
  steaming hot.
  3. To serve, ladle soup into warm bowls. Top each serving with a little
  whipped cream, sprinkle with paprika, and serve at once.
      Title: Crawfish and Corn Soup
 Categories: Soups, Crawfish
   Servings:  8
      1 lb Crawfish tails - peeled
      2 c  Corn - cut from the cob,
           -reserving about 4 cobs
      1 cn Corn - cream-style
      1 c  Onions - finely chopped
      2    Ribs celery - finely chopped
      1    Med. bell pepper - finely
           -chopped
      1 bn Green onions - finely
           -chopped (use about 2 or 3"
           Of the fresh green part)
      4 tb Parsley - minced
      3    Clove garlic - minced (3 or
           -4 cloves, depending on
           -size)
      6 tb Butter
      6 tb Flour
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1 lb Tomatoes - canned, drained
           -(reserve liquid)
      1    Bay leaf - or 2
      1 ts Thyme
           Salt, pepper and Tabasco to
           -taste
           STOCK:
           Shells and claws for peeled
           -crawish, NOT the heads
      4 tb Butter
    1/4 c  Brandy - or Cognac
      1 c  White wine
           Water
      1    Carrot - cut into large
           -pieces
      1    Rib celery - cut into large
           -pieces
      3    Green onions - cut into
           -large pieces
      3    Sprig parsley - whole
      2    Clove garlic
      1    Bay leaf
      1 pn Thyme
  Number of Servings:   8
  Make stock first.  Ten pounds of boiled crawfish make one pound of meat.
  Peel crawfish, reserving shells and claws.  Rinse shells and let drain.
  Melt butter in a large pot; add shells and fry until sizzling and hot,
  turning them often.  When shells are hot enough, heat a small pot, pour in
  brandy and ignite.  Remove shells from fire, pour in brandy, tossing and
  turning until the flame dies down.
  Add wine and water to cover shells.  Add onion, celery, green onions,
  parsley, garlic, thyme and bay leaf.  Let it all simmer for an hour. Strain
  carefully and reserve.
  In another pot, melt butter, add flour and let cook on low fire until
  medium brown.  Add chopped vegetables and let cook on a low fire until
  wilted, stirring often.  Chop tomatoes and add to pot with reserved liquid.
  Let cook a few minutes.
  Add stock -- just enough to make a soupy consistency -- then add
  Worcestershire sauce, bay leaf, thyme, crawfish, corn and about four of the
  cobs (for added flavor).  Let simmer an hour.  Taste for salt, pepper and
  Tabasco.  If using boiled crawfish, it is usually peppery enough.
  Remove the cobs and serve.
  If the soup is too thick, add more stock or water.  If it's too thin, cook
  a little more flour and add to thicken it.
  Serves 8.
  NOTE:  If you prefer to buy crawfish tails already picked, buy a couple of
  pounds of boiled crawfish and pick them so as to have the shells to make
  your stock.  Shrimp may be substituted.
  Grand Prize Winner by Marguerite Sigur, Times-Picayune Cooking Contest,
  1984.
  Posted by Michelle Bass. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Cream Chicken Soup
 Categories: Soups, Osg, Chicken
   Servings:  1
      1 pt Chicken broth
      1 pt Milk; whole
    1/2 pt Cream; heavy
      2 tb Rice; cook separately
      1 ea Egg yolk; beaten lightly
           Flour; add to make rivels
  When about ready to serve, heat milk, broth and cream to boiling point,
  then add rivels. Cook a few minutes, add rice and small piece of butter.
  Season to taste. Source: Mrs. Char. Lawrence, Valley College Grange, Wayne
  County, OH
      Title: Cream Consomme
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
           Jim Vorheis
      1 lg Onion, grated
      1    Tart apple, unpeeled and
           -grated
 31 1/2 oz Beef consomme
  1 1/2 c  Heavy cream
    1/2 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Imported curry powder
      1    Red apple, unpeeled and
           -chopped, for garnish
      2 tb Fresh lemon juice
  Add the grated onion and apple to the consomme and cook until tender, about
  12 minutes.  Puree in a blender, then put through a strainer. Stir in cream
  and season with paprika and curry powder. Refrigerate until ready to serve.
  Reheat slowly, just until heated through. Serve in small cups garnished
  with chopped unpeeled apple sprinkled with lemon juice.
  Colorado Cache Cookbook (1978) From the collection of Jim Vorheis
      Title: Cream Mushroom Soup
 Categories: Soups, Osg
   Servings:  1
      3 c  Milk
    1/4 lb Mushrooms; fresh - chopped
      1 tb Butter
      1 ts Flour
  Cook mushrooms in double boiler with enough water to cover well, for 20
  minutes. Add milk and thicken with flour and butter rubbed smooth and
  dissolved in a little of the hot milk before adding to soup. Season and
  boil to cook flour. Add spoonful whipped cream in each serving. Source:
  Mrs. N. S. Jones, Milan Grange, Erie County, OH
      Title: Cream of Asparagus
 Categories: Vegetables, Soups
   Servings:  9
  1 1/2 lb Fresh Asparagus
  1 1/2 c  Chopped Onion
      6 tb Butter
      6 tb All-Purpose Flour
      2 c  Water Or Stock
      4 c  Hot Milk
    1/2 ts To 1 t Dill Weed (To Taste)
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts White Pepper
      2 tb Tamari Soy Sauce
  Break off and discard tough asparagus bottoms.  Break off tips; set aside.
  Coarsely chop stalks; cook in skillet with onion in butter, salting
  lightly.  After 8 to 10 minutes, when onions are clear, sprinkle with
  flour.  Continue to stir over lowest possible heat 5 to 8 minutes.  Slowly
  add water or stock, stirring constantly.  Cook 8 to 10 minutes stirring
  frequently, until thickened.  Cool slightly.  In blender, puree sauce
  bit-by-bit with milk until thoroughly smooth.  Return puree to 3-quart pan-
  preferably a double boiler. Add dill, salt, pepper and tamari.  Heat gently
  but don't boil. As it heats, cook asparagus tips in boiling water until
  tender, but still very green, about 2 minutes; drain.  Add whole to soup.
      Title: Cream of Asparagus Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  6
      1 tb Butter
      1 sm Onion, finely chopped
    1/2    Stalk celery, finely chopped
      2 c  Chicken stock
           (see index)
      1 lb Asparagus tips, chopped
           Salt & pepper to taste
    1/4 ts Mace
    3/4 c  Whipping cream
      3    Hard-cooked eggs, chopped
  SOURCE: THE IMPECCABLE PIG, EAST INDIAN SCHOOL, SCOTTSDALE. WINE: J. PHELPS
  CHARDONNAY, 1979.  Melt the butter in a saucepan over medium heat. Add the
  onion and celery and cook, stirring often, until soft but not brown. Add
  the stock and bring to a boil. Add the asparagus; simmer for 5 minutes. Add
  salt, pepper, and mace. Remove from heat. Slowly stir in the cream. Reheat
  gently.  Serve in bowls garnished with hard-cooked egg.
      Title: Cream of Asparagus Soup
 Categories: Soups, 1941
   Servings:  6
      1 c  Asparagus pulp
      2 c  Thin white sauce
      1 c  Boiling water
           Salt and pepper
           Whipped cream
           Cayenne pepper
  Prepare asparagus pulp by rubbing cooked asparagus through a sieve. Add
  water and white sauce.  Heat thoroughly.  Season to taste. Garnish each
  serving with 1 teaspoon of whipped cream. 6 servings.
  The Household Searchlight
      Title: Cream of Broccoli Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings: 10
      1    Bunch Of Broccoli
    1/4 c  Butter
      2    Onions
      2 c  Chopped Celery
      1    Garlic Clove
    1/2 c  Flour
      4 c  Milk
      4 c  Chicken Broth
    1/2 ts Marjoram
    1/2 ts Thyme
           Salt And Pepper
           Almond Slivers
           Chopped Tomato
  Trim broccoli and cut into one-half inch thick slices.  Steam in salted
  water until tender.  In large sauce pan, melt butter and saute onions,
  celery and garlic until brown.  Stir flour gradually into butter mixture.
  Add milk slowly, then add chicken broth and herbs.  Stir over low heat
  until soup thickens and boils.  Add broccoli, salt and pepper.  Serve hot.
  Top with almond slivers or chopped tomato, if desired.
      Title: Cream of Beer Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
     12 oz Bottles of beer (1 dark and
           -2 light)
      1 tb Sugar
    1/2 ts White pepper
    1/4 ts Each cinnamon and salt
    1/8 ts Nutmeg
      3    Eggs, separated
    1/2 c  Heavy cream
  Serves 4 to 6
  Pour beer into a saucepan, stir in the sugar and spices, and bring to a
  boil.  Beat the egg yolks into the cream, add a little hot beer to the
  mixture, beat well, and pour the mixture back into the rest of the beer,
  beating constantly with a wire whisk over very low heat to avoid curdling.
  Refrigerate until cold. When ready to serve, beat the egg whites until
  stiff but not dry and fold them into the soup.
  I Hear America Cooking From the collection of Jim Vorheis
      Title: Cream of Broccoli Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings: 12
      1    Bunch Broccoli
      1    Vegetable Bouillon Cube
    1/2 c  Butter
    1/8 c  Soy Sauce
    3/4 lb Swiss Cheese, Grated
     16 oz Sour Cream
      1 lb Cheddar Cheese, Grated
      6 c  Water
      1 c  Cashews, Ground
  Saute broccoli in butter for 10 minutes.   Using blender combine all of the
  ingredients together.  As blender fills, transfer liquid to soup pot and
  simmer for 20 to 30 minutes.  Good with muffins or corn bread.
      Title: Cream of Broccoli Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      1 lb Fresh broccoli
      3 c  Chicken stock
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Grated lemon rinds
      3    Green onions, finely chopped
      1 c  Sliced fresh mushrooms
    1/8 ts Freshly ground black pepper
    1/4 ts Tabasco
      2 tb Butter
      3 tb Flour
      2 c  Half and half
  Soak the broccoli in cold water for 15 minutes; drain well. Remove the
  large leaves and the tough parts of the stalk. Cut deep gashes in the
  bottom of each stalk.
  In a medium-sized sauce pan bring the chicken stock to a boil over high
  heat and add the broccoli, salt, lemon rind, green onions, mushrooms,
  pepper, and Tabasco. Cover the pan, lower the heat to a simmer and cook for
  30 to 35 minutes until the broccoli stalks are tender when tested with a
  fork. Puree the mixture in a blender or food processor.
  Melt the butter over medium heat in a large skillet and stir in the flour
  with a wire wisk. When smooth, add the broccoli puree and continur
  stirring. As soon as the mixture thickens, taste and adjust the seasonings
  as desired. Warm the half and half to 100 degrees in a separate pan, then
  add it to the broccoli mixture. When thoroughly mixed, turn off the heat.
  (If you have to reheat, do so slowly over a low heat. Watch carefully so
  that it does not come to a boil. Stir while it is heating to prevent from
  burning.) Serves six to eight.
      Title: Cream of Broccoli Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
    1/2 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      1 bn Broccoli, chopped
      2 c  Chicken broth
    3/4 ts Basil
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
  1 1/2 tb Lemon juice
      1 c  Light cream
  Thin slices of lemon for garnish
  In a heavy 3 quart pot, melt the butter.  Saute onion until transparent.
  Add broccoli, broth, basil, salt, and pepper. Cover and simmer15 minutes.
  Puree in a blender.  Add lemon juice and cream. Garnish with lemon.
      Title: Cream of Broccoli Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetarian, Vegetables
   Servings:  6
      1 tb Butter of safflower oil
      1    Onion, chopped
      2    Cloves Garlic, minced or put
           -through a press
    1/2 ts Paprika
      2 lb Broccoli florets
      1    Potato, peeled and diced
      3 c  Water or vegetable stock
           Sea salt and black pepper to
           -taste
      3 tb Chopped fresh parsley
      1 c  Milk (more to taste)
    3/4 c  Freshly grated Parmesan
           -cheese
  From: Gourmet Vegetarian Feasts, by Martha Rose Shulman, 1989.
  Set aside 6 broccoli florets and steam just until bright green. Refresh
  under cold water and hold.
  Heat butter or oil in a heavy-bottom soup pot and saute onion and garlic
  until onion is tender.  Add paprika, stir together, then add broccoli,
  potato, water and salt to taste.
  Bring to a boil, reduce heat and simmer for 20 minutes, uncovered. Puree
  through a food mill or in a blender and return to pot.  Stir in milk and
  parsley, add lots of freshly gourng pepper, heat through and adjust salt.
  Thin out, if you like, with more milk.
  Serve, topping each bowl with freshly grated Parmesan and broccoli florets.
  This can be frozen.
      Title: Cream of Crab Soup
 Categories: Soups, Crabmeat
   Servings:  6
      1 lb Crabmeat
    1/4 ts Celery Salt
      1    Chicken Bouillion Cube
      1 c  Boiling Water
      1 ds Pepper
    1/4 c  Chopped Onion
      1 qt Milk
      1 c  Butter
           Chopped Parsley
      3 tb Flour
  Dissolve boullion cube in water.  Cook onion in butter until tender, blend
  in flour and seasonings.  Add milk and bouillion gradually; cook until
  thick, stirring constantly.  Add crabmeat, heat.  Garnish with parsley.
      Title: Cream of Celery Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
  1 1/2 c  Chopped celery
    1/3 c  Chopped onion
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Water
  2 1/2 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Milk
      3 tb All-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts White pepper
      2 tb Butter
  Cook 1 1/2 cups chopped celery, 1/3 cup chopped onion, and 1/2 teaspoon
  salt in 1 cup water, covered, about 15 minutes or till tender. Do not
  drain. Add 2 1/2 cups milk. Blend 1/2 cup milk, 3 tablespoons all-purpose
  flour, 1/2 teaspoon salt, and 1/8 teaspoon white pepper; add to celery
  mixture. Cook and stir till bubbly. Stir in 2 tablespoons butter. Season.
  Serves 6.
      Title: Cream of Cheese Soup
 Categories: Soups, Cheese
   Servings:  3
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      3    Green onion,thinly sliced
    1/2 c  Thinly sliced celery
  1 1/4 c  Water
    1/2 c  Half-and-half
    2/3 c  Past. process cheese spread
      1 ts Instant chicken bouillon
    1/8 ts Ground nutmeg
    1/3 c  Dry white wine
           Paprika
           Toasted croutons
  Melt butter in 3-quart saucepan over medium heat. Cook and stir onions and
  celery in butter until onions are tender, about 8 minutes. Stir in water,
  half-and-half, cheese spread, instant bouillon and nutmeg. Heat to boiling
  over medium heat, stirring constantly; stir in wine. Heat to boiling. Boil
  and stir 1 minute. Sprinkle each serving with paprika and garnish with
  croutons.
      Title: Cream of Cilantro Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  2
      3 c  Plain yogurt
      2 c  Loose-packed leaves cilantro
      1 c  Half and half
    1/2 c  Chopped green onion
      1 tb Minced fresh parsley
      3 c  Chicken broth
           Garnish sprigs cilantro
           Freshly ground pepper
  (Makes 2 quarts.) Blend yogurt, cilantro, half and half, onion and parsley
  in processor 15 seconds. Transfer to large container. Stir in broth.
  Refrigerate overnight.
  To serve, ladle soup into bowls. Garnish with cilantro sprigs and pepper.
      Title: Cream of Cauliflower Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
  2 1/2 c  Cold Water
      1 cn (10 1/2 Oz.) Reduced
           Sodium Chicken Broth
      6 c  Caluiflower Flowerets
    1/3 c  Instant Nonfat Dry Milk
      1 tb Flour
    1/8 ts Ground Nutmeg
    1/4 ts White Pepper
           Minced Fresh Parsley
           Lemon Wedges
  Combine Water & Broth in A Large Saucepan; Bring To A Boil. Addcauliflower;
  Return To A Boil.  Reduce Heat & Cook 10 Min. OR Until Tender. Remove
  Cauliflower From Broth, Reserving Broth. With Knife Blade in Processor, Add
  Cauliflower.  Pulse 8 To 10 Times OR Until Cauliflower Is Finely Chopped,
  But Not Pureed.
   Combine Milk Powder, Flour, Nutmeg, & Pepper; Add To Reserved Broth,
  Stirring Well With A Wire Whisk.  Add Chopped Cauliflower & Bring To A
  Boil; Reduce Heat & Simmer 15 Min. OR Until Slightly Thickened.
   Ladle Soup Into 6 Indiividul Bowls; Garnish With Minced Parsley If
  Desired.  Serve With Lemon Wedges. (Fat 0.4. Chol. 1.)
      Title: Cream of Carrot Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
    1/2 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Marjoram
    1/2 c  Water
      4 c  Sliced carrots
      2 tb Chopped onions
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Flour
      2 c  Milk
      2 ts Dill weed
    1/4 ts Thyme
      1 tb Chicken stock base
      2 c  Half-and-half
      1 c  Heavy cream
           Salt and white pepper to
           -taste
      1    Carrot, grated
  curry to taste
  HINT:  This soup can be served chilled, but omit the grated carrot.  When
  re- heating, do not boil.
  Stir sugar and marjoram into boiling water.  Add carrots and onion.  Steam
  until tender.  Stir in butter until melted.  Sprinkle with flour.  Cook and
  stir until lightly browned.  Add milk gradually, stirring until smooth.
  Season with 1 teaspoon of the dill and the thyme.  Simmer 30 minutes,
  stirring occasionally.  Puree in blender or food processor and return to
  soup pan.  Add chicken stock base, half-and-half, cream, and season to
  taste. Refrigerate until serving time.  Reheat and stir in grated carrots.
  Garnish with remaining dill weed.
      Title: Cream of Curried Corn Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  6
           Stuart Talkofsky
      4 c  Corn kernels
      1    Onion ;chopped
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Flour
      1 ts Curry powder
           Salt
           Pepper
      2 c  Chicken stock
      2 c  Half and half
-----------------------------GARNISH----------------------------------
           Popcorn
  Saute 4 cups of corn kernels and a chopped onion in 2 tablespoons butter,
  stirring frequently, until corn is tender and onion is transluscent.  Stir
  in 2 tablespoons flour, 1 teaspoon curry powder (or to taste) salt and
  pepper and cook, stirring constantly, for 2 minutes.  Stir in 2 cups
  chicken stock and 2 cups half and half and cook until mixture comes to a
  boil and thickens slightly.  Process in batches in food processor or
  blender until smooth.  Garnish with popcorn. Makes 6 Servings.
  From Newsday Wed, Aug 4, 1993. "Lend and Ear" by Marie Bianco Meal Mastered
  by Stuart Talkofsky
      Title: Cream of Cauliflower and Cheese Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables, Cheese
   Servings:  6
      3 c  Water
      1 md Onion, chopped fine
      2 ts Basil
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
  2 1/2 c  To 3 c cauliflower florets,
           -cut to uniform size
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Flour
      1 c  Hot chicken stock
      2 c  Milk
    1/4 lb Cheddar cheese, cut into
           -small pieces
  If you want to cut down in the fats in the recipe, use margarine and skim
  milk for the butter and the milk.
  In a heavy 4 qt kettle, cook water, onion, basil, salt, and pepper covered
  for 5 minutes over medium heat.  Add cauliflower.  Cover and cook until
  cauliflower is soft, about 15 minutes.
  In a medium saucepan, melt butter.  Add flour and mix until none of the
  flour remains white.  Slowly add hot stock.  Stir with whisk until smooth.
  Pour into soup and mix well.  In saucepan, heat milk.  Add cheese and stir
  over low heat until melted.  Add to soup.  Mix well and heat until soup
  begins to steam.
  Serves 6 to 8.
  Posted by Ellen Cleary. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Cream of Cauliflower Soup (Veloute De Chor-Fleur)
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      1 sm Head cauliflower
           Salt
      1 lg Leek, white part only
           Fresh ground white pepper
      2 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Creme Fraiche
      2 tb Flower
      1 c  Croutons
  3 1/2 c  Boiling water
  Blanch the cauliflower:  break the head into flowerets and put them in a
  saucepan with cold water to cover.  Bring it to the boiling point, cook for
  one minute, drain, and rinse the flowerets under cold running water.
  Wash the leek, slice it into small rounds, and cook them in the butter
  until they are soft.  Stir in the flower, cook for a few minutes until it
  is golden, and add the boiling water.  Add the blanched cauliflower, season
  to taste with salt and pepper, and simmer for 20 minutes.
  Strain the soup through a food mill or puree it in a blender.  Stir in the
  creame fraiche, correct the seasoning, and serve with croutons.
  CREME FRAICHE: American heavy cream is considerably thinner than French
  heavy cream.
  Use 1 teaspoon of buttermilk for each cup of heavy cream.  Heat in a
  saucepan until it is lukewarm (about 85 F), pour into a glass container,
  and allow it to stand at room temperature until it thickens.  In very hot
  weather it can thicken in as little as 6 hours; in cold weather it can take
  as long as 36 hours.  This can be stored in the refrigerator for a least a
  week.
  Source: Ramond Oliver's "La Cuisene"
  Posted by Bill Calvin, Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Cream of Carrot Soup
 Categories: Vegetables, Soups
   Servings:  6
      1 c  Cooked sliced carrots
    1/4 c  Evaporated skimmed milk
      2 tb Fresh coriander or parsley
           -leaves
    1/8 ts Curry powder
           Salt and freshly ground
           -black pepper to taste
    1/2 c  Mixed vegetable juice
  1 1/2 ts Fresh lemon juice
  1.  Combine the carrots, evaporated milk, coriander, curry powder, salt and
  pepper in a food processor; process until smooth.  Pour into a small
  saucepan.
  2.  To the carrot mixture, add the vegetable juice, 1/4 cup water and the
  lemon juice.  Cook over medium heat, stirring frequently, until soup is
  heated through, about 5 minutes.
  Makes one serving.
  Per Serving: 146 Calories; 7 g Protein; 0 g Fat; 709 mg Sodium 30 g
  Carbohydrates; 3 mg Cholesterol
  [WEIGHT WATCHERS MAGAZINE; Jan 1990]
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Cream of Cauliflower Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  8
      2 tb Canola oil
      1 c  Onion, coarsely chopped
    1/2 c  Rice
      2 lb Cauliflower (1 head), cored
           -and broken into
           Florets
      6 c  Water or vegetable stock
           Salt to taste
    1/4 ts Ground white pepper
      2 c  Non-fat milk
  Parsely, finely chopped (for garnish)
  Heat the oil in a stock pot large enough to hold all of the ingredients.
  Briefly saute the onions until they are tender.  Add the remaining
  ingredients, except the milk and parsley.  Simmer, covered, until the rice
  and vegetables are tender, 20 to 30 minutes.  Puree the soup in a food
  processor or blender.  Add the milk, taste and adjust the seasonings.
  To serve, return to the pot and heat thoroughly, but do not boil. Or, chill
  and serve in iced bowls or cups.  Garnish with chopped parsley.
  Makes 8 servings.
  [THE BALTIMORE SUN; May 12, 1991]
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Cream of Crab Soup
 Categories: Soups, Seafood
   Servings:  6
      2 tb Flour
      2 tb Butter
      3 c  Fish stock or subsitute
           -fresh or canned chicken
           -stock,
           Thoroughly skimmed of all
           -fat
      2    Hard-cooked eggs, peeled and
           -finely mashed with a fork
  1 1/2 c  Light cream
  1 1/2 c  Milk
      2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts White pepper
      1 lb Fresh, frozen or canned crab
           -meat, drained and picked
           -over to
           Remove all bits of shell and
           -cartilage.
    1/4 c  Pale dry sherry
    1/4 c  Strained fresh lime juice
      1 ds Angostura bitters
  This is a Carribbean recipe from the island of Barbados.
  In a heavy 3 to 4 quart saucepan, melt the butter over moderate heat. When
  the foam begins to subside, stir in the flour and mix thoroughly. Pour in
  about 1/2 cup of fish stock (or degreased chicken stock) and, stirring
  constantly with a whisk, cook over high heat until the sauce thickens and
  comes to a boil.  Reduce the heat to low and simmer for about 3 minutes to
  remove any taste of raw flour.  Stir in the eggs, then add the remaining 2
  1/2 cups of the stock, the cream, milk, salt and pepper. Still stirring,
  bring to a boil over high heat.  Reduce the heat to moderate and add the
  crab meat, sherry, lime juice and bitters. Cook for 2 to 3 minutes to heat
  the crab meat through.  Taste for seasoning and serve at once from heated
  tureen or in individual soupplates.
  Posted by Bob Stein. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Cream of Corn Soup
 Categories: Soups, 1941
   Servings:  6
      1 c  Corn
      2 c  Milk, scalded
      3 tb Melted butter or butter
           -substitute
      1 c  Boiling water
      3 tb Flour
    1/2 tb Minced onion
      1 tb Chopped celery leaves
           Salt and pepper
  Brown onion and celery leaves in butter.  Add flour.  Mix until smooth. Add
  milk slowly, stirring constantly.  Add water.  Cook over hot water until
  thick and smooth.  Add corn.  Season to taste. Heat thoroughly. If desired,
  celery salt to taste may be substituted for chopped celery leaves. 6
  servings.
  The Household Searchlight
      Title: Cream of Carrot Soup
 Categories: Soups, 1941
   Servings:  6
      1 c  Diced carrots
      3 tb Flour
      1 tb Minced onion
      1 c  Boiling water
  2 1/2 c  Milk, scalded
      3 tb Melted butter or butter
           -substitute
           Salt and pepper
  Combine carrots and water.  Cover.  Simmer until carrots are tender. Rub
  through sieve.  Brown onion in butter.  Add flour. Mix until smooth. Add
  milk slowly, stirring constantly.  Cook over hot water until thick. Add
  carrots and the water in which they were cooked. Season to taste. Heat
  thoroughly. 6 servings.
  The Household Searchlight
      Title: Cream of Celery Soup
 Categories: Soups, 1941
   Servings:  6
      1 c  Diced celery
      3 tb Flour
      1 tb Minced onion
      1 c  Boiling water
  2 1/2 c  Milk, scalded
      3 tb Melted butter or butter
           -substitute
           Salt and pepper
  Combine celery and water.  Cover.  Simmer until celery is tender. Brown
  onion in butter.  Add flour.  Mix until smooth.  Add milk slowly, stirring
  constantly.  Cook over hot water until smooth and thick. Add celery and the
  water in which it was cooked. Season to taste. Heat thoroughly. 6 servings.
  The Household Searchlight
      Title: Cream of Eggplant Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  6
      1 lb Eggplant
           Salt
      2 oz Butter
      1 md Onion, finely diced
      2    Stalks celery, diced
      1 ts Curry powder
      1 pn Thyme
      1 pn Basil
      4 c  Chicken stock
      1 c  Potato, diced
    1/2 c  Cream
  Salt Pepper Diced tomato, for garnish Chopped chives, for garnish
  Dice the eggplant but do not peel.  Sprinkle a little salt over the
  eggplant and leave to stand for about 30 minutes.  Put in a strainer and
  run a little water over the dice, pat dry.  This removes any bitter taste
  which would spoil the soup.
  Melt the butter in a saucepan and add the onion, celery and eggplant.
  Saute', stirring occasionally until the vegetables have slightly softened.
  Eggplant absorbs butter very rapidly so you may have to add a little more
  or the vegetables will stick.
  Add the curry powder and fry to release the flavors.  Add thyme, basil,
  chicken stock and the potato.  Cover and simmer until the vegetables are
  quite soft, about 30 minutes.
  Put the soup through a sieve or moulin and add the cream.  Taste for
  seasoning.  Add a little diced tomato or chopped chives for garnish and
  color.
  This soup keeps well for several days.  However, if you intend making it
  beforehand and keeping it, only add the cream when you reheat it. It
  thickens as it stands, but it can be thinned with a little milk.
  From "A Taste of Class" by Beverley Sutherland Smith
  Posted by Steve Herrick. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Cream of Fresh Vegetable Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  3
  1 1/2 c  Chicken broth
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
           Desired vegetable and
           -seasonings (see chart
           -below)
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb All-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Salt
           Few dashes White Pepper
      1 c  Milk
  In saucepan combine chicken broth, chopped onion, and one of the
  vegetable-seasoning combinations from chart. (Or substitute an equal amount
  of frozen vegetable, if desired.) Bring mixture to boiling.
  Reduce heat;cover and simmer the time indicated in the chart or till
  vegetable is tender. (Remove bay leaf if using broccoli.)
  Place half the vegetable mixture into a blender container or food
  processor. Cover and blend 30 to 60 seconds or till smooth. Pour into bowl.
  Repeat with remaining vegetable mixture; set all aside.
  In the same saucepan melt the butter. Blend in the flour, salt and pepper.
  Add the milk all at once. Cook and stir till mixture is thickened and
  bubbly. Stir in the blended vegetable mixture. Cook and stir till soup is
  heated through. Season to taste with additional salt and pepper. Serves 3
  or 4.
  Recipe from: Better Homes and Gardens, Soups & Stews Cookbook copyright
  1978 by Meredith Corporation, Des Moines, Iowa
      Title: Cream of Garlic Soup
 Categories: Soups, Garlic
   Servings:  6
      3 oz Garlic cloves, peeled (about
           -3/4 cup)
      3 tb Olive oil
  2 1/2 c  Chicken stock or canned low
           -salt broth
      1 c  Dry white wine
  2 1/2 c  Milk (do not use low fat or
           -non fat)
      1 c  Whipping cream
      4 oz Russet potato, peeled
           -coarsely chopped
  C'est la Vie in Anchorage, Alaska, offers this garlic lovers' treat.
  Makes 6 servings
  Blend garlic in processor to coarse paste, stopping occasionally to scrap
  down sides of bowl. Heat oil in heavy large saucepan over low heat. Add
  garlic paste and cook until just beginning to color, stirring frequently,
  about 12 minutes. Add stock and wine and bring to boil. Reduce heat and
  simer 30 minutes. Add milk, cream and potato and simmer 30 minutes. Puree
  soup in blender in batches. Return to sauepan and bring to simmer. Season
  to taste with salt and peper. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and
  refrigerate. Bring to simmer before continuing.) If soup is very thin,
  simmer until thickened to desired consistency. Ladle into bowls and serve.
  Origin: Favorite Restaurant Recipes, by Bon Appetit Shared by: Sharon
  Stevens.
      Title: Cream of Garlic Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      6 tb Butter or peanut oil
    3/4 lb Smoked ham, cubed,
      2    Leaks, chopped
      1 lg Potato peeled and chopped
           -coarsely
     10    Cloves garlic, mashed and
           -minced
      5 c  Chicken stock
  1 1/2 c  Half and half
           Salt and pepper to taste
    1/2 bn Parsley minced
           Paprika
  Melt butter in soup pot.  Add about  1 teas  peanut oil. Saute' garlic,
  adding ham, leeks and potato.  Pour in stock, and simmer two hours. Puree
  in batches in blender.  Return to pot, add half and half, salt and pepper.
  Sprinkle each bowl of soup with paprika and parsley.
      Title: Cream of Leek Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  2
     12    Med. leeks
      4 tb Butter
      1 tb Garlic - finely minced
      6 tb Flour
      8 c  Chicken broth - homemade or
           -canned
      2 c  Milk
           Salt and freshly ground
           -pepper to taste
    1/4 ts Freshly grated nutmed
      1 c  Whipping cream
    1/3 c  Chervil sprigs - OR 3
           -Tablespoons chopped fresh
           Chives
  1.  Trim the leeks and rinse them well.  Quarter them lengthwise and cut
  them into 1/4-inch pieces.  There should be about 5 cups.
  2.  Heat the butter in a heavy saucepan and add the leeks and garlic. Cook
  briefly, stirring often, over medium heat.  Add the flour, blending it well
  with a wire whisk, and add the chicken broth, milk, salt, pepper and
  nutmeg.  Bring to a simmer and cook for 30 minutes.
  3.  Spoon and scrape the mixture into a blender or food processor and
  puree.
  4.  Just before serving, add the whipping cream.  The soup can be served
  cold or brought to a simmer and served hot.  Garnish each serving with the
  chervil or chives.
  Yield:  10 to 12 servings.
  Posted by Michelle Bass. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Cream of Lima Bean Soup
 Categories: Soups, 1941
   Servings:  8
      1 c  Dried lima beans
      6 c  Cold water
      2 sl Onion, diced
      4 sl Carrot, diced
    1/2 ts Paprika
      4 tb Butter or butter substitute
      2 tb Flour
      1 c  Cream or milk
      1 ts Salt
  Wash lima beans.  Cover with cold water.  Let stand overnight. Add 6 cups
  cold water.  Cover.  Simmer slowly until tender.  Rub beans through sieve.
  Heat to boiling.  Fry onion and carrot 5 minutes in 2 tablespoons butter.
  Remove vegetables.  Add flour, salt, and paprika to hot butter. Stir until
  browned.  Add to boiling bean puree. Add cream or milk and remaining
  butter.  Mix thoroughly. Serve at once. 8 servings.
  Grace Viall Gray, Glen Ellyn, IL.
      Title: Cream of Mushroom Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
      1 lb Mushrooms,rinsed & drained
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      1    Large onion,chopped
    1/2 ts Dried thyme leaves
    1/4 c  All-purpose flour
      6 c  Chicken broth,reg-strength
      1    Dried bay leaf
      1 c  Whipping cream
      3 tb Dry sherry
           Salt
           Pepper
  Mushroom soup is so readily available in cans that it seldom occurs to the
  cook to make it from scratch. The canned product is, in fact, so universal,
  reliable, and chameleon-like in flavor that it has become the base of a
  thousand casseroles.
  If you seek a more intense mushroom flavor, however, look no further. Erid
  Lie, tooting his own horn, claims to have the answer to your prayers right
  here.
  Flour plays a part in the thickening of this soup, but the basic body and
  emphatic statement of mushroom flavor come from cooking part of the
  mushrooms with onions until they are mellow and lightly browned, then
  pureeing them.
  The flavor is further enhanced by adding sliced mushrooms before the final
  heating.
  ==========================================================================
  1. Chop half the mushrooms; thinly slice the remaining mushrooms and set
  aside.
  2. Melt butter in a 5-6 quart pan over medium-high heat; add chopped
  mushrooms, onion, and thyme. Stir often until the vegetables are lightly
  browned, 15-20 minutes. Mix flour with vegetables.
  3. Pour into a blender or food processor; whirl, adding as much broth as
  needed to get the mixture smoothly pureed. Pour mixture back into pan; add
  remaining broth, sliced mushrooms, bay leaf, and cream.
  4. Bring soup to a boil on high heat, stirring frequently. Reduce heat to
  low and simmer to blend flavors, about 10 minutes. Add sherry, salt, and
  pepper to taste. Make about 8 cups.
  
  ~ Eric Lie, Edmonds, WA
      Title: Cream of Mushroom Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      1 tb Cornstarch
  3 1/2 c  Water
      3    Low Sodium Chicken
           Bouillon Cubes
      1 c  Finely Chopped Fresh
           Mushrooms
    3/4 c  Skim Milk
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1 ts Onion Powder
  Stir Cornstarch Into Water & Heat Until Boiling.  Stir in Bouillon Cubes
  Until Dissolved.  Add Chopped Mushrooms To Mixture & Simmer For 20 Minutes.
  Add Skim Milk, Pepper & Onion Powder.  Heat Only Until Hot. (Fat 0.2. Chol.
  1.)
      Title: Cream of Mushroom Soup
 Categories: Soups, 1941
   Servings:  6
      1 c  Canned mushrooms
      2 c  Thin white sauce
      1 tb Minced onion
           Salt, pepper, and paprika
  Chop mushrooms.  Add white sauce, mushroom liquor, and onion. Cook over hot
  water, stirring constantly, 10 minutes.  Rub through sieve. Reheat. Season
  to taste.  Garnish with paprika. 6 servings.
  The Household Searchlight
      Title: Cream of Onion Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      2 md Onions, chopped very fine
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Flour
      1 cn Clear chicken broth
      1 lg Can evaporated milk
  1 1/2 c  Water
    1/2 ts Thyme
      2    Bay leaves
    1/2 ts Salt
  Saute onions in butter until tender.  Mix flour and chicken broth and add
  to onion mixture.  Add milk, water, and other ingredients. Cook slowly for
  20 minutes.
  Source: Rock Springs Sweet Onion Festival Cook Book 1992
      Title: Cream of Oyster Stew
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  5
      4 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Chopped celery
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
    1/2 c  Diced carrots
    1/4 ts White pepper
           Oyster liquor
      1    10-12 oz can cream of
           -mushroom soup
    1/2 c  Milk
    1/4 c  Chopped parsley
      1 pt Maryland Oysters, standards
  Cream of Oyster Stew
  Melt butter in a 2 quart saucepan.  Saute celery, onion, and carrots in
  melted butter for 5 minutes.  Add white pepper and liquor that has been
  drained from oysters.  Add mushroom soup and milk; stir until smooth.  Heat
  to low simmer.
  Add parsley and oysters.  Heat until oysters are plump and begin to ruffle.
  Serve immediately.  Makes 5 cups total. 4 servings of 1 1/4 c each.
  Suggestion: Add a splash of sherry right before serving.
      Title: Cream of Onion Soup
 Categories: Soups, 1941
   Servings:  6
      2 tb Quick-cooking tapioca
      2 tb Butter or butter substitute
    1/4 c  Grated cheese
      4 c  Milk, scalded
      2 tb Minced onion
  2 1/2 tb Chopped parsley
           Salt and pepper
  Combine onion, tapioca, and milk.  Cook over hot water until tapioca is
  clear.  Add butter, cheese, and parsley.  Season to taste. Cook until
  cheese is melted.  Serve at once. 6 servings.
  The Household Searchlight
      Title: Cream of Pumpkin Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
      2 tb Unsalted butter
      1 md Onion; roughly diced
      4 c  Pureed pumpkin
           - (canned or fresh)
      3 qt Chicken stock
           -or low-sodium chicken broth
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Ground coriander
    1/2 ts Curry powder
    1/2 ts White pepper
      3 c  Milk and/or whipping cream
    1/3 c  Walnut oil
  MELT BUTTER IN A 2-QUART POT over medium heat. Add the onion and cook,
  stirring occasionally, until onion softens, about 10 minutes. Add the
  pumpkin and salt and continue to cook, stirring, another 15 minutes for
  fresh pumpkin, 5 minutes for canned. Add the stock, salt, coriander, curry
  and pepper. Cover, increase heat to high and bring to a boil. Reduce heat
  to low and simmer 15 minutes. Remove from heat and place in a food
  processor or blender and puree until smooth. Combine puree, milk and walnut
  oil. Cover, bring to the boil and cook 2 minutes. Serve piping hot.
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
      Title: Cream of Peanut Butter Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
      2 sm Onions
      2 c  Heavy cream
      3    Stalks celery
  1 1/2 c  Sour cream
      3 tb Butter
           Salt to taste
      3 tb Flour
    3/4 c  Coarsely crumbled
      6 c  Chicken broth
           Tostados (or Fritos)
    3/4 c  Peanut butter
  Peel and mince the onions.  Wash and coarsely chop the celery.  Melt the
  butter in a soup kettle and add the onions and celery.  Saute until the
  onions are golden and transparent.  Stir in the flour and cook a few
  minutes longer.  Gradually stir in the chicken broth, using the back of a
  spoon to press out any lumps.  Bring to a boil, mix in the peanut butter,
  and continue to stir until the soup boils once more.
  Remove the kettle from the stove and let rest for 5 minutes, spooning off
  any peanut oil that rises to the top.  Reheat and stir in the cream. Add
  salt according to your taste.  Reheat slightly over very low heat if
  necessary.  Ladle into individual soup bowls and place a generous dollop of
  sour cream on top of each.  Sprinkle with crumbled tostados. Serves 8
  From: The New York Times Bread and Soup Cookbook Shared By: Pat Stockett
      Title: Cream of Peanut Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
    1/4 c  Butter
      1 tb Minced onion
      1 tb Flour
      1 c  Peanut butter
      1    Qt. Chicken stock
      1 ds Pepper
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Cream
  Melt butter. Add onion. Simmer until tender but not brown. Add flour and
  peanut butter and stir to a smooth paste. Add stock gradually. Add
  seasonings. Cook twenty minutes in a double boiler, stirring constantly,
  until thickened. Strain and add cream. (Serves 8)
      Title: Cream of Pecan Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  2
      2 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Onion, diced
      1 tb Flour
      2 c  Broth (OR
      2 c  Water AND
      1    Vegetable bouillon cube)
    1/2 ts Soy sauce
    1/2 ts Vegetable seasoning
      1    Dash nutmeg
      1 c  Pecans, ground fine
    1/2 c  Celery leaves
  1 1/2 c  Cream or half & half
      4    Sprigs mint
  Melt butter; add onion and saute 5 minutes.   Stir in flour and broth.  Add
  seasonings, pecans, and celery leaves; simmer 10 minutes.  Stir in cream
  and simmer 5 minutes longer. Serve with mint.
      Title: Cream of Peanut Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
    1/4 c  Butter
      1 c  Celery,thinly sliced
    1/2 c  Green onions,minced
      2 tb Flour
      2 c  Chicken stock
    3/4 c  Peanut butter,creamy
  1 1/2 c  Light cream
  Melt butter in large saucepan over low heat and add celery and onion. Cook
  until tender but not browned. Add flour and stir until mixture is smooth.
  Gradually add chicken broth and bring to a boil. Blend in peanut butter and
  simmer about 15 minutes. Stir in cream just before serving.
      Title: Cream of Peanut Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      1 tb Butter
      3 tb Peanut butter
      1 ts Minced onion
      2 tb Flour
      3 c  Milk
           Salt and pepper
    3/4 c  Chopped peanuts
  Put butter, peanut butter, and onion in the top of a double boiler. Cook
  five minutes. Add flour and stir until smooth. Slowly add milk. Cook 20
  minutes. Season to taste and add peanuts. (Serves 6)
  Hope these are close to what you are looking for.
      Title: Cream of Peanut Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      1 md Onion, chopped
      2    Ribs of celery, chopped
    1/4 c  Butter
      3 tb All-purpose flour
      2 qt Chicken stock or canned
           -chicken broth
      2 c  Smooth peanut butter
  1 3/4 c  Light cream
  peanuts, chopped
  Saute the onion and celery in the butter until soft, but not brown. Stir in
  the flour until well blended. Add the chicken stock, stirring constantly,
  and bring to a boil. Remove from the heat and rub through a sieve. Add the
  peanut butter and cream, stirring to blend thoroughly. Return to low heat
  and heat until just hot, but do not boil. Serve, garnished with chopped
  peanuts.
      Title: Cream of Pea Soup
 Categories: Soups, 1941
   Servings:  6
  1 1/3 c  Canned pea soup, pea puree,
           -or sieved peas
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Finely minced onion
  2 2/3 c  Thin white sauce
           Salt and pepper
  Brown onion in the butter.  Add pea soup and white sauce.  Heat to boiling.
  Season to taste.  Beat with a dover beater 1 minute. Serve at once. 6
  servings.
  The Household Searchlight
      Title: Cream of Potato Soup
 Categories: Soups, 1941
   Servings:  4
      1 c  Diced potatoes
      1 c  Boiling water
      2 c  Thin white sauce
      1 ts Minced onion
           Celery salt
           Salt, pepper, and paprika
  Combine potatoes, water, and onion.  Cook until vegetables are tender. Rub
  through sieve.  Add white sauce.  Season to taste with salt, pepper, and
  celery salt.  Heat to boiling.  Garnish with paprika. 4 servings.
  The Household Searchlight
      Title: Cream of Potato Soup #2
 Categories: Soups, Osg
   Servings:  6
      6 ea Potatoes; medium size
      1 ea Butter; size of walnut
      1 ea Onion; chopped fine
      2 c  Milk
  Dice and cook potatoes in salt water. Add butter, pepper, and onion. When
  potatoes are tender, add milk and riffles made by mixing a small amount of
  flour and butter until small lumps form. Serves 6. Source: Mrs. Allie
  Rockfield, Tremont Grange, Clark County, OH
      Title: Cream of Pea Soup
 Categories: Soups, Osg
   Servings:  1
      1 cn Peas (2 1/2 c.)
    1/2 ts Sugar
      1 pt Water
      2 tb Flour
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1 ts Salt
  1 1/2 tb Butter
      1 pt Milk
  Run peas and liquid through strainer; add sugar and water and heat. Make
  white sauce of flour, salt, pepper, butter and milk. As soon as sauce boils
  remove from fire and combine with peas. Source: Lena Fern Painter,
  Huntington Grange, Galia County, OH
      Title: Cream of Potato Soup
 Categories: Soups, Osg
   Servings:  4
      5 ea Potatoes; medium size
      3 c  Potato water
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ea Garlic; clove
      1 c  Cream; sweet
  Boil and mash potatoes and garlic (onion may be used instead of garlic);
  add potato water, salt and cream. Let come to a boil and serve at once with
  salt wafers. Serves 4. Source: Marie Novak, Sheffield Grange, Ashtabula
  County, OH
      Title: Cream of Shiitake Mushroom Soup
 Categories: Soups, Low-cal, Vegetarian
   Servings:  4
      1 qt Milk; whole, low-fat or skim
      1 sm Onion; peeled and stuck with
      2    Cloves
      6    Whole peppercorns (or more)
      1 pn Salt
--------------------------BOUQUET GARNI-------------------------------
           :Tie in cheesecloth,
      6    Fresh parsley stems,
    1/2 ts Dried leaf thyme
    1/2    Bay leaf
---------------------------SOUP, CON'T--------------------------------
      4 tb Rice flour
           -(or barley or oat flour)
      4 tb Cold milk (about)
      8 oz Shiitake mushrooms
-----------------------------OPTIONAL----------------------------------
      6 tb Heavy cream
      2 tb Madeira
           Reserved mushroom slices
  This rich, earthy soup has but 100 calories per serving if made with
  non-fat milk.
  PLACE THE MILK, ONION, peppercorns, salt and bouquet garni in a saucepan
  and bring slowly to a boil. Form a smooth paste of the rice flour and the
  cold milk. Put into the just-boiling milk and stir briskly until there are
  no lumps. Simmer over very low heat for 20 minutes. Meanwhile, cut off the
  tough ends of the mushroom stems. Reserve a few mushroom slices for garnish
  and chop the remaining mushrooms coarsely, then place in a food processor
  with a steel blade and chop as finely as possible. Strain the milk mixture
  through a fine sieve back into the saucepan; add the chopped mushrooms and
  continue simmering 5 minutes. Add the cream and Madeira, if you wish, and
  serve in hot bowls, garnished with a slice of mushroom.
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
      Title: Cream of Sun Dried Tomato Soup
 Categories: Soups, Low-cal, Vegetarian
   Servings:  4
      1 qt Milk; whole, low-fat or skim
      1 sm Onion; peeled and stuck with
      2    Cloves
      6    Whole peppercorns (or more)
      1 pn Salt
--------------------------BOUQUET GARNI-------------------------------
           :Tie in cheesecloth:
      6    Fresh parsley stems
    1/2 ts Dried leaf thyme
    1/2    Bay leaf
---------------------------SOUP, CON'T--------------------------------
      4 tb Rice flour
           -(or barley or oat flour)
      4 tb Cold milk (about)
      1 pk Sun-dried tomatoes (3 oz)
      2 c  Water
-----------------------------OPTIONAL----------------------------------
      6 tb Heavy cream
           Chopped Herbs for garnish*
           -(basil, chervil or parsley)
  This creamy, vibrant red soup has but 100 calories per serving if you use
  low-fat milk and no cream.
  PLACE THE MILK, ONION, peppercorns, salt and bouquet garni in a saucepan
  and bring slowly to a boil. Form a smooth paste of the rice flour and the
  cold milk. Put into the just-boiling milk and stir briskly until there are
  no lumps. Simmer over very low heat for 20 minutes. Meanwhile, boil the
  sun-dried tomatoes in the 2 cups of water; do not drain. Strain the milk
  mixture, add the tomatoes and their liquid, and simmer another 5 minutes.
  In a blender, in batches, liquefy the soup. Return to the stove and bring
  just to a boil. Add the optional cream, if desired, and serve in hot bowls
  garnished with a minced green herb.
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
      Title: Cream of Vegetable Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  1
      1 tb Celery
           Salt & pepper to taste
      1 tb Onion
      1 c  Milk
      1 tb Butter
           Worcestorshire sauce to
           -taste
      2 ts Flour
    1/2 c  Any cooked vegetable
    1/4 ts Chicken bouillon
  Cook celery and onion in butter until soft.  Stir in flour, bouillon, salt
  and pepper.  Add milk and worcestorshire sauce. Cook until thickened plus 1
  minute.  Blend vegetable with soup until smooth. Makes 1 serving. Suggested
  combinations:  carrots and nutmeg, peas and mint, potatoes and dill.
      Title: Cream of Zucchini Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      1 lg Onion, chopped
    1/4 c  Butter
      3 c  Chicken broth
      6 md Zucchini, diced
      1 tb Parsley, chopped
    1/4 ts Thyme leaves
           Salt
           Pepper
  1 1/2 c  Half-and-half
      1 c  Dry white wine
     Saute onion in butter until soft. Add broth, zucchini, parsley, thyme,
  salt and pepper. Simmer 10 minutes, or until zucchini is softened. Puree in
  blender. Return to pan, add half-and-half and wine and heat through.
  SOURCE: Akron Beacon Journal staff writer Jane Snow; Wednesday 08/18/93
      Title: Cream Tomato Soup
 Categories: Soups, Osg
   Servings:  1
      1 pt Tomato juice; strained
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Flour
      1 qt Milk
  Cream butter and flour together, add to hot juice. Stir quickly or use egg
  beater to smooth. Cook until it thickens. Heat milk until slight scum
  forms; lower heat, add tomato mixture slowly, stirring constantly. Salt to
  taste. Serve hot with buttered popcorn or crackers. Source: Mrs. H.
  Tomlinson, Farmer Grange, Defiance County, OH
      Title: Creamed Broccoli Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
     40 oz Frozen broccoli
      2    Stalks celery, thinly sliced
      1 lg Onion, thinly sliced
      4 c  Boiling chicken bouillon,
           -1/2 strength
           Good pinch ground cloves
           Salt & freshly ground pepper
           Lemon juice
           Tabasco
  1 1/2    To 2 cup heavy cream
  Put broccoli in a large saucepan with celery & onion. Pour in boiling
  bouillon; bring to a boil & simmer 15-20 minutes until veggies are very
  soft. Blend soup to a puree in electric blender. Season soup to taste with
  cloves, salt, & pepper. Add lemon juice & a dash of Tabasco. Thin to
  desired consistency with cream. Adjust seasonings. Reheat very gently,
  stirring, & being careful not to let the soup boil. Serves 8-12.
      Title: Creamed Carrot Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
      5 tb Butter
      4    Onions, chopped
      4 c  Carrots, sliced
      4 tb Flour
      5 c  Beef broth
  3 1/2 c  Milk
      1    Pinch salt
      1    Pinch pepper
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
  Melt butter in kettle.  Saute vegetables until onions are clear.  Blend in
  flour.  Mix in broth and stir until smooth.  Simmer covered 30 minutes. Put
  soup through blender to puree.  Stir in milk.  Adjust the seasonings.  Stir
  until hot, but not boiling.  Ladle into bowls and sprinkle nutmeg on top.
      Title: Creamed Carrot Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
      2 tb Butter
      1    Onion, finely chopped
      6 md Or 9 small carrots, diced
    1/4 c  All purpose flour
      6 c  Chicken stock
      1    Bay leaf
    1/2 ts Granulated sugar
    1/4 ts Dried thyme
      2    Sprigs fresh parsley
      1 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
      3 tb Each finely chopped parsley
           -and chives
  Servings: about 8
  Salt
  In large heavy saucepan, melt butter over low heat; cook onion,covered, for
  1 minute.  Add carrots and stir to coat; cover and cook for 15 minutes,
  stirring occasionally.
  Stir in flour; cook, stirring, for 2 minutes.  Gradually stir in stock; add
  bayleaf, sugar, thyme and parsley.  Simmer, uncovered, for 15 minutes or
  until reduce slightly.  Remove bay leaf and parsley.
  Add milk and cream; gently heat throug but do not boil.  Tast, add salt and
  adjust seasoning if desired.  Serve in bowls.
  Source: Canadian Living, Soups and Starters posted by Linda Davis
      Title: Creamed Tomato Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
      3 tb Butter (to saute with)
      2 tb Safflower oil
      2    Large onions, chopped
    1/2 ts Thyme, crushed
      1 ts Basil
      1 ds Salt & pepper
     10    Medium ripe tomatoes,
           Coarsely chopped
      5 tb Tomato paste
    1/3 c  Flour
      6 c  Chicken broth
  1 1/2 ts Sugar
      1 c  Cream
      1 c  Milk
      2 tb Butter
  Combine butter and oil in soup pot; add onions; saute over low heat,
  sprinkling with thyme, basil, salt and pepper; stir occassionally.  When
  onions are tender, stir in tomatoes and tomato paste; simmer about 18
  minutes.  Blend flour with equal amount of chicken broth; add to tomato
  mixture and mix well.  Slowly add remaining chicken broth, stirring well.
  Simmer covered, over low heat, for about 30 minutes.  Stir occasionally to
  prevent soup from sticking to bottom of pan.  Put soup through blender in
  small batches.  Reheat puree and stir in sugar, cream and milk.  Simmer a
  few minutes; add remaining butter just before serving.
      Title: Creamy Artichoke and Oyster Soup
 Categories: Soups, Oysters
   Servings:  2
      2 c  Artichoke hearts
     12    Oysters; jar, or fresh
      4 tb Butter
      4 tb Flour
      1 c  Milk
      3    Green onions; chopped
      1    Cl Garlic
    1/4 c  Parsley; chopped
           Generous pinch of thyme
      1 c  Cream
           Salt and freshly ground pepp
           -er to taste
       Reserve four artichoke hearts for garnish; cut each in two or four
  pieces and set aside.  Buzz the rest with their liquid in the blender.
        Make a white roux with the butter and flour, letting them cook
  together, stirring, without browning.  Stir in the artichoke puree, any
  liquid from the oysters and 1 cup milk.  Simmer with the green onions,
  garlic, thyme and parsley, salt and pepper for about 10 minutes or until
  the flavors are well blended.  Add the oysters and the cream and heat just
  until the oysters plump and curl around the edges. Serve in deep bowls
  immediately, the top garnished with the reserved artichokes. This was
  printed years ago in a column in the Times-Picayune called "Pot au Feu".
  Source: Myriam Guidroz
      Title: Creamy Carrot Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      8 md Carrots, peeled & chopped
           -in 2 inch chunks
      2 md Yellow onions, quartered
      2 ea Sprigs parsley
      3 ea Whole cloves
    1/4 ts Rosemary
      2 ea 10 1/2 oz cans condensed
           -chicken broth
      2 c  Milk
    1/8 ts Pepper
      2 tb Minced parsley
  Place carrots, onions, parsley, cloves, rosemary and chicken broth in a
  saucepan, cover and simmer 45 to 50 minutes until carrots are very soft;
  remove cloves and parsley and discard.  Puree the mixture in batches in a
  blender at low speed.  Return to pan, stir in milk and pepper and heat,
  stirring for 2 to 3 minutes.  Serve hot or cold.  Garnish each portion with
  minced parsley.
      Title: Creamy Carrot Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  4
      2 c  Peeled, sliced carrots (5 or
           -6)
  1 1/2 c  Strong chicken broth
      1 md Onion, coarsely chopped
      2 tb Raw white rice
      1 pn Grated nutmeg
  Salt and freshly ground pepper to taste Grated lemon peel for garnish
  Chopped fresh parsley for garnish
  Place all of the soup ingredients in a medium saucepan.  Bring to a boil,
  cover, reduce the heat and simmer until the vegetables and rice are tender,
  about 20 minutes.
  Cool slightly and puree the mixture until smooth.  Just before serving,
  adjust the seasonings.  Reheat the soup, garnish as desired and serve hot.
  Serves 4 with 92 calories per serving.
  [THE BALTIMORE SUN; February 13, 1991; Louise Tennent Smith]
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Creamy Chicken Noodle Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
      8 c  Chicken broth or bouillon
      1    To 2 cups diced cooked
           -chicken
      1 c  Milk
      1 c  Quartered, thinly sliced
           -carrot
    1/2 c  Sliced celery, including
           -some leaves
    1/2 c  Chopped green pepper
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      1    Clove garlic, minced
    1/2 ts Dried marjoram leaves,
           -crushed
  Salt and freshly ground pepper to taste
  In a large kettle combine broth or bouillon, chicken, milk, carrot, celery,
  green pepper, onion, garlic, marjoram and salt and pepper.  Over medium
  heat cook until vegetables are crisp tender.
  6 oz. homemade noodles 1/2 cup milk 1/4 cup all-purpose flour 2 tablespoons
  butter or margarine
  Add noodles and cook until almost done.  In a cup whisk together milk and
  flour; stir into soup mixture and boil gently for 3 minutes.  Stir in
  butter or margarine.  Makes 8 to 10 servings.
      Title: Creamy Fennel Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  6
      2 c  Defatted beef or chicken
           -stock (Or bouillon
           From cubes)
      1    Fennel bulb, about 1 pound
      1    Sliver garlic
      2 tb Chopped shallots
      1 tb Lemon juice (or more to
           -taste)
      1 pn Lemon zest
    1/2 ts Dried dillweed (or 1 1/2
           -teaspoons fresh)
      1 ts Ground coriander
      1 qt Nonfat yogurt
  Clean and slice the fennel bulb, reserving any greens for garnish. Cook the
  fennel in the stock with the garlic and shallots until soft. Puree in a
  blender with the lemon juice and zest, and the spices.  Strain the puree if
  you wish a smoother texture.  Combine well with the yogurt and chill. Serve
  garnished with chopped fennel greens or chopped coriander.
  Serves six.
  [ MID-ATLANTIC COUNTRY; August 1989 ]
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Creamy Fruit Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      1 oz Package frozen
           -raspberries,blueberries,
           Strawberries, peaches, or
           -mixed fruit, thawed
      1 c  Water
    1/4 c  Sugar
      2    Inches stick cinnamon
      1 ds Ground nutmeg
      1 ds Ground cloves
      1 tb Water
      1 tb Cornstarch
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 c  Dairy sour cream
    1/2 c  Milk
  Drain fruit, reserving syrup (cut up large pieces of fruit). In 1 1/2-
  quart saucepan combine reserved syrup,the 1 cup water, sugar, cinnamon,
  nutmeg, and cloves. Bring to boiling; reduce the heat and simmer, uncovered
  for 5 minutes. Remove stick cinnamon. Blend the 1 tablespoon water and
  cornstarch; stir into saucepan. Cook and stir till thickened and bubbly.
  Remove from heat. Add lemon juice. Cool to room temperature. Blend in sour
  cream and fruit. Stir in milk. Cover and chill. Garnish with strips of
  lemon peel, if desired. Makes 4 to 6 servings.
  Recipe from: Better Homes and Gardens, Soups & Stews Cookbook copyright
  1978 by Meredith Corporation, Des Moines, Iowa
      Title: Creamy Garlic Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetarian
   Servings:  6
      1    Head of garlic
           - cloves separated, unpeeled
      2 qt Water
      2 ts Salt
      1 pn Pepper
      2    Cloves
    1/4 ts Thyme
    1/2    Bay leaf
      4    Parsley sprigs
      3 tb Olive oil
      3    Egg yolks
      4 tb Olive oil
           French bread rounds, toasted
      1 c  Grated Swiss or Parmesan
  DROP GARLIC CLOVES in boiling water and boil 30 seconds. Drain, run cold
  water over the cloves and peel. Place the garlic and the rest of the
  ingredients up to the egg yolks in a saucepan and boil slowly for 30
  minutes. Correct the seasoning. Beat the egg yolks in a soup tureen until
  they're thick and sticky. Drop by drop, beat in the olive oil as if making
  a mayonnaise. Just before serving, beat a ladleful of hot soup into the egg
  mixture by droplets. Gradually strain in the rest, beating, and pressing
  the juice out of the garlic. Serve immediately, accompanied by the bread
  and cheese.
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
      Title: Creamy Garlic Spinach Soup with Garlic Croutons
 Categories: Garlic, Soups
   Servings:  4
      1 lg Bunch spinach, stalks
           -removed
      4 c  Chicken broth (preferably
           -home-made)
      2 lg Carrots, grated
      1 lg Onion, chopped
      8    Cloves fresh garlic, finely
           -chopped
    1/2 c  Butter (1 stick)
    1/4 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Light cream
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
  Salt and freshly ground Pepper to taste Sour cream (optional) Garlic
  Croutons
  Chop spinach coarsely. Combine with chicken broth and carrots in a 2 to 3
  quart pot. Cook 5 to 10 minutes until carrots are tender and spinach
  wilted. Remove from heat. Meanwhile, saute onion and garlic very gently
  over low to medium heat in butter about 20 to 30 minutes. Onions should be
  very tender and transluscent but garlic should NOT be browned. Add flour
  and cook, stirring constantly, 5-10 minutes. Combine spinach/broth and
  onion/garlic mixtures in food processor or blender in small batches.
  Puree until smooth. Clean pot and return soup to pot. Add cream, whipping
  cream and salt and pepper to taste. Heat until hot, but not boiling.
  Garnish with a dollop of sour cream and garlic croutons.
  Yield: 4 servings. Shared by Allison Cozzi Source: The Complete Garlic
  Lovers' Cookbood, 1987
      Title: Creamy Green Pepper Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  3
      1    Med. green pepper chopped
           -(1/2 cup)
      1    Sm. onion chopped (1/4 cup)
    1/4 c  Water
      1 cn (10 3/4-ounce) condensed
           -cream of celery soup
  1 3/4 c  Milk
  In 1 1/2-quart covered saucepan cook green pepper and onion in water, till
  tender. Do not drain. Stir in condensed soup then milk. Heat through,
  stirring occasionally. Cover and chill thoroughly. Float green pepper rings
  atop, if desired.
  Makes 3 or 4 servings.
  Recipe from: Better Homes and Gardens, Soups & Stews Cookbook copyright
  1978 by Meredith Corporation, Des Moines, Iowa
      Title: Creamy Leek Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetarian
   Servings:  6
      1 tb Butter
      2 lg Leeks, white part only,
           -cleaned and sliced
      2    Cloves Garlic, minced or put
           -through a press
      3 c  Vegetable stock
    1/2 lb Stale French whole wheat
           -bread, crusts removed and
           -diced
      1 pn Of Cayenne
           Sea salt and pepper to taste
    1/2 c  Plain yogurt or cream
  From:  Gourmet Vegetarian Feasts, by Martha Rose Shulman, 1989
  Heat butter in a heavy-bottomed soup pot and saute leeks and garlic over
  medium-low heat for about 10 minutes, or until tender and aromatic. Add
  vegetable stock and bread, bring to a summer, cover, and cook for 15
  minutes.
  Puree in blender and return to pot.  Season to taste with salt and pepper,
  and add a pinch of cayenne.  Stir in yogurt or cream and serve.
      Title: Creamy Mushroom Soup
 Categories: Soups, Microwave
   Servings:  2
    1/4 c  Chopped Onion
      2 tb Snipped Parsley
      1 tb Butter Or Margarine
  1 1/2 c  Fresh Sliced Mushrooms
  1 1/2 ts Cornstarch
      1 ts Instant Beef Bouillon
    1/2 ts Worcestershire Sauce
    1/8 ts Dry Mustard
      1 ds Freshly Ground Pepper
    2/3 c  Water
    1/2 c  Dairy Sour Cream
           Snipped Parsley (Optional)
  In a 4-cup measure micro-cook the chopped onion, the 2 T snipped parsley,
  and butter or margarine, uncovered, on 100% power for 1 to 1-1/2 minutes or
  until the onion is tender but not brown.  Stir in the sliced fresh
  mushrooms.  Micro-cook, covered, on 100% power for 2 to 3 minutes or until
  the mushrooms are tender, stirring once.  Stir in cornstarch, beef bouillon
  granules, worcestershire sauce, dry mustard, and freshly ground pepper. Add
  water; mix well.  Micro-cook, uncovered, on 100% power 3 to 4 minutes or
  until thickened and bubbly, stirring twice.  Combine hot mushroom mixture
  and dairy sour cream in a blender container.  Cover and blend until mixture
  is nearly smooth.  Pour back into the 4-cup measure. Micro-cook, uncovered,
  on 100% power about 1 minute or till the mushroom mixture is heated
  through.  DO NOT BOIL! Garnish with additional snipped parsley, if desired.
  NOTE:  After making Creamy Mushroom Soup, use this quick clean-up method to
  wash your blender.  Simply fill the blender container about 1/3rd full with
  lukewarm water and add a small amount of detergent. Replace the lid and run
  the motor a few seconds or till the blender container is clean. Rinse, dry,
  and return the blender container to it's base.
      Title: Creamy Mushroom Barley Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      4 c  Water
  1 1/2 ts Beef Bouillon Granules
    1/4 c  Barley Uncooked
      1 ts Olive Oil
    1/2 c  Chopped Onion
      2 cl Minced Garlic
      5 c  Sliced Mushrooms
      2 tb Dry Vermouth
      1 c  Evaporated Skim Milk
    1/4 c  Sliced Green Onions
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/8 ts Salt
  Combine Water & Bouollon Granules in A Large Dutch Oven.  Bring To A Boil.
  Add Barley & Return To Boil. Cover, Reduce Heat & Simmer 1 Hour OR Until
  Tender.  Remove 1/2 C. Barley, Using A Slotted Spoon; Set Both Mixtures
  Aside.
   Coat A Medium Skillet With Cooking Spray; Add Oil & Place Over Medium Heat
  Until Hot. Add Onion & Garlic & Saute 2 Min. Add Mushrooms & Vermouth; Cook
  An Additional 2 Minutes, Stirring Frequently. Cover, Reduce Heat; Simmer 5
  Min. Remove From Heat.
   in Processor, Add 1/2 C. Drained Barley, 1/2 C. Mushroom Mixture, And
  Milk. Process Until Smooth.  Add Pureed Barley Mixture & Remaining Mushroom
  Mixture To Dutch Oven. Bring To A Boil. Remove From Heat.Stir in Remaining
  Ingredients. Serve Warm.
      Title: Creamy Potato Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  4
      4 tb Unsalted butter
      2    Onions, chopped
      1    Leek, white part only,
           -thinly sliced
      3    Ribs celery, diced
      4    Waxy boiling potatoes,
           -peeled and diced
      1 ts Sweet paprika
      6 c  Chicken broth
    1/2 ts Dried thyme
      1 sm Imported bay leaf and 5
           -sprigs parsley
           Tied together with kitchen
           -string
      1 ts Worchestershire sauce
    3/4 c  Heavy cream
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
      1 tb Minced fresh parsley leaves
           -(optional)
  Place the butter and onion in a large soup kettle, set over low heat and
  cook until onions have softened, about 5 to 8 minutes.  Increase the heat
  to medium, add the leek and stir-cook for 1 minute.  Add the potatoes and
  paprika; stir-cook for 30 seconds.  Stir in the broth, thyme, herb bubdle,
  and Worchestershire sauce.  Bring the soup base to a boil, then cover and
  simmer for 50 minutes, or until the potatoes are tender. Scoop out about 1
  cup of the vegetables and mash them; then return them to the pot. Discard
  the herb bundle.  (The soup may be prepared in advance up to this point.)
  Stir in the heavy cream, season with salt and pepper to taste, and let the
  soup cook without simmering until heated through. Sprinkle with fresh
  parsley and serve immediately.
  Makes 4 generous servings.
  [WASHINGTON POST JAN 11, 1989] Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Creamy Tomato Onion Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  3
    3/4 c  Onions, chopped
      3 tb Defatted chicken stock
      2 c  Pureed fresh tomatoes, or
           -canned unsalted tomatoes
      1 ts Sweet basil
      1 md Garlic cloves, pressed, or 1
           -Tbs garlic powder
    1/4 ts Coarsely ground pepper
  1 10.5 oz. package Mori-Nu Silken Tofu (soft), drained Optional -- pinch of
  salt; add margarine or butter, if desired
  In a medium saucepan, saute onions in chicken stock until transparent. Add
  pureed tomatoes along with next three ingredients. Simmer for 10 to 15
  minutes.
  In a blender or a food processor,process tofu until smooth and stir into
  the tomato mixture.  Simmer and serve hot.
  Makes 3 servings of 8 oz. each. Per serving (without salt): 101 calories, 7
  g protein, 2.8 g fat, 13.4g carbohydrates, 0 mg cholesterol, 14mg sodium.
  Optional ingredients not included in calibrations.
  Posted by Helen Fleischer.
      Title: Creme of Vegetable Soup - Le Cellier Restaurant
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
  1 1/2 qt Chicken stock
    3/4 c  (1-1/2 sticks) butter
    3/4 c  Diced onion
  1 1/2 c  Diced potato
    3/4 c  Peeled diced tomato
    3/4 c  Diced carrot
    3/4 c  Green beans
    3/4 c  Broccoli, coarsely chopped
    3/4 c  Minced leek
    3/4 c  Minced zucchini
      1    Clove garlice
  1 1/2 ts Sugar, or to taste
           Sald and freshly ground
           - pepper to taste
    1/2 c  Heavy cream
  Servings:  6
  Melt butter in large stockpot over medium heat.  Add onion and saute' 1 to
  2 minutes.  Reduce heat to low and add remaining ingredients except stock,
  cream and parsley.  Cook unti vegetables are soft but not brown, about
  20-25 minutes.
  Add stock and bring to boil over medium high heat.  Reduce heat and simmer
  about 10 minutes.  Cook slightly.
  Transfer to blender of processor in batches and puree to smooth.  Taste and
  adjust seasonng.  Return to stockpot, place over medium heat and gradually
  stir in cream.  Heat through but do not boil.  Garnish with parsley.
  From Le Cellier Restaurant, Santa Montica, California. Recipe shared by
  Cate Vanicek
      Title: Crock-Pot Fifteen-Bean Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables, Beans, Pork
   Servings:  4
      1 pk (20 oz) 15-bean soup mix
           -(throw away the flavor
           -packet!)
      1 lg Onion, chopped
      1 ts Garlic
      1 ts Celery salt
      2    Stalks chopped celery
      1    Bay leaf
      1 ds Cayenne pepper
           Ground pepper to taste
      1 pk Polska kielbasa, sliced into
           -coins (we prefer turkey
           -kielbasa)
  Soak beans overnight, changing water frequently.  Drain.  In crock- pot,
  cover beans with 1 inch water.  Add all other ingredients except kielbasa.
  Cover and cook on high for one hour; turn to low and cook overnight. Stir
  once or twice during cooking.  One hour before serving, check the texture
  of the soup.  If it's too thin, mash some of the beans with a potato
  masher.  Add sliced kielbasa.  Cook for one hour.  Serve with Tabasco sauce
  and bread or rice.
  Serves 4 generously.
  NOTE:  This soup freezes well.  Leftovers are excellent (usually thicker
  from reheating), and are delicious served over rice.
  Posted by Evvie Vincow. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Cuban Black Bean Stew
 Categories: Soups, Low-cal, Beans
   Servings:  4
      1 lb Black Beans, Uncooked
      1 c  Onion, Chopped
      1 tb Butter
      4 c  Water
           Bouillon Cube, Beef
     12 oz Cooked Lean Ham
      2    Bay Leaves
    1/2 ts Thyme
    1/2 ts Oregano
    1/2 ts Salt
      1    Whole Dried Red Pepper
      1 c  Chopped Bell Pepper
    1/3 c  Dark Rum (Optional)
      1 c  Sour Cream (Optional)
  Sort and soak beans overnight; drain and discard soak water.  In a 4-quart
  pot, saute onion in butter until tender but not browned.  Add soaked beans,
  4 cups water, bouillon cube, ham (cut into chunks), bay leaves, thyme,
  oregano, salt and pepper.  Bring to a boil, reduce heat.  Cover and simmer
  until beans are tender, 1 to 1-1/2 hours.  Remove 1 cup of beans from pot
  and mash with a potato masher or fork.  Add mashed beans back into pot and
  stir to thicken.  Remove ham chunks and dice.  Remove bay leaves and red
  pepper, if used and discard.  Add diced ham, green pepper and rum to beans.
  Cover and simmer for 15 minutes.  Serve beans over rice and top with sour
  cream if desired.
      Title: Cuban Black Bean Soup
 Categories: Soups, Beans
   Servings: 10
      1 ga Water
  1 1/2 c  Black beans
      1 lb Bacon, chopped
      1 ts Crushed dried red pepper
           -flakes
           Salt and pepper, to taste
      2    Cloves garlic, crushed
      1 pn Oregano
      2    Yellow onions, chopped
      1 tb Prepared mustard
      1    Handful chopped fresh
           -parsley
      1    Handful chopped celery
  Soak the beans in 2 quarts of water overnight, then drain.
  Add the fresh water to the beans in a large pot.  Simmer for 5 hours. Add
  the remaining ingredients.  Simmer for another 2 hours. Watch that you
  don't burn this great soup.
  Serves 10 to 12.
  [ "The Frugal Gourmet"; Jeff Smith; 1984; ISBN 0-688-03118-8 ]
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Cuban Black Bean Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      4 ts Olive oil
    1/2 c  Each chopped onion and green
           -bell pepper
      1 oz Canadian-style bacon, diced
      1 tb Fresh cilantro, minced
      4    Garlic cloves, minced
      1 tb Red wine vinegar
  1 1/2 qt Water
  5 1/4 oz Sorted uncooked black turtle
           -beans, rinsed
      2    Pkt instant chicken broth
           -and seasoning mix
    1/2 ts Each salt, oregano leaves,
           -and ground cumin
      1 ts Ground red pepper
           Cilantro leaves for garnish
  In 3-quart saucepan heat oil over medium-high heat; add onion, bell pepper,
  bacon, minced cilantro, and garlic; saute until vegetables are softened, 4
  to 6 minutes.  Add vinegar and saute for 1 minute longer; add remaining
  ingredients and bring to a boil.  Reduce heat to low and simmer until beans
  are tender, about 50 to 60 minutes.  Let soup cool slightly. In blender at
  low speed, in batches (about 2 cups at a time), process half of soup until
  pureed; Return to saucepan with remaining soup and cook, stirring
  occasionally, until thoroughly combined and heated.  Serve garnished with
  cilantro leaves.
  Makes 4 servings.
  [WEIGHT WATCHERS NEW INTERNATIONAL COOKBOOK]
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Cucumber Soup with Pistou
 Categories: Vegetables, Soups
   Servings:  6
      1 tb Olive oil
      1    Leek (white part plus 1 inch
           -of green) chopped
      1    Stalk celery with leaves,
           -chopped
      1 lb Cucumbers, peeled, halved,
           -seeded, and chopped
      2 ts Lemon juice
      4 c  Chicken stock
           Pistou:
      2    Cloves garlic, finely minced
    1/4 c  Minced fresh basil
      4 ts Finely chopped walnuts
      2 ts Parmesan cheese
      4 ts Olive oil
    1/2 md Sized tomato, peeled,
           -seeded, and chopped
  To prepare the soup: In a medium-size saucepan, heat oil over low heat. Add
  leeks and celery and cook until vegetables are soft, about 10 minutes,
  stirring occasionally.  Add cucumbers, lemon juice and stock. Bring to a
  boil over medium heat.  Reduce heat to low and simmer for 20 minutes, or
  until cucumbers are tender.  Cool slightly. To prepare Pistou: With a
  mortar and pestle, mash together garlic, basil and walnuts to a paste. (you
  can also use a bowl with a wooden spoon). Work in a little cheese and oil
  and one-third of the tomato.  Keep adding cheese, oil and tomato.  The
  mixture will not be a true emulsion but a barely fluid paste.
  Transfer cucumber mixture to a food processor or blender and puree, in
  batches, until smooth.  Ladle soup into serving bowl.  Pass the pistou.
  Allow 1 tablespoon of pistou per serving to be placed in the center of the
  bowl, then swirl into soup.
  Enjoy David....
  **>>April<<**
      Title: Cucumber-Cream Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings: 10
      3 md Cucumbers, peeled, seeded,
           -and chopped (3 cups)
      1 sm Onion, chopped (1/4 cup)
      3 tb Butter or margarine
    1/4 c  All-purpose flour
      3 c  Chicken broth
      1 c  Whipping cream
  In 2-qt saucepan cook cucumbers and onion, covered, in butter or margarine
  about 15 minutes or till tender. Stir in flour. Add chicken broth and
  whipping cream; cook and stir till thickened and bubbly. Pour half the
  mixture into blender container or food processor. Cover and blend till
  mixture is smooth. Set aside. Repeat with remaining mixture. Cover and
  chill.  Garnish with additional cucumber slices, if desired. Makes 10 to 12
  servings.
  Microwave Cooking Directions: Use ingredients as listed above. In a 2-quart
  nonmetal bowl or casserole place cucumbers, onion, and butter or margarine.
  Cover with waxed paper and cook in a countertop microwave oven on high
  power about 7 minutes or till onion is tender. Stir in flour. Add chicken
  broth and cream. Cover and micro-cook 8 minutes or till thickened and
  bubbly, stirring every two minutes. Blend half the mixture in blender
  container or food processor till smooth. Set aside; repeat with remaining.
  Cover and chill. Serve as directed above.
  Recipe From: Better Homes and Garden, Soups & Stews Cook Book Copyright
  1978 by Meredith Corporation, Des Moines, Iowa
      Title: Curried Apple Soup
 Categories: Soups, Spicy
   Servings:  6
      2 lg Cooking Apples
           Lemon Juice
      2 ts Curry Powder
      3 tb Butter Or Vegetable Oil
      5 c  Chicken Stock
      1 ts Salt
    2/3 c  Apple Juice
  1 1/4 c  Whipping Cream
           Ground Ginger
  Servings:  6 Cooking Time: 30 Minutes
  Peel and core the apples, keeping a few curls of peel for a garnish.
  Mince this peel and keep it in water with a little lemon juice until
  needed.  Fry the curry powder in the butter until dark brown.  Stir in
  about a quarter of the stock and cook until the mixture is smooth.  Add the
  rest of the stock and the salt.  Mince the apples and drop immediately into
  the stock in order that they do not discolor in the air.  Cover and allow
  to simmer, gently, for 20 minutes or until the apples are soft.  Add the
  apple juice and blend well.  Chill the soup for several hours, or until
  needed.  Add the chilled cream just before serving.  Sprinkle a little
  ginger on top when you serve and garnish with the minced apple peel, if
  desired.
  From How To Make Good Curries by Helen Lawson  Copyright 1973
      Title: Curried Avocado Soup
 Categories: Soups, Spicy, Caribbean
   Servings:  4
      2    Medium-ripe dark-skinned
           -(Haas) avocados
  2 1/4 c  Vegetable stock
  1 1/2 ts To 2 ts curry powder
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts To 1/4 ts white pepper
    1/2 c  Heavy cream
      2 tb Fresh lemon juice
  Split avocados in half with a knife and remove the pits.  Set aside one
  half.  Scoop out the insides of the other three halves with a spoon and
  blend with 1 cup of the stock in a blender until smooth.  Stir in the curry
  powder, salt, pepper, cream, and remaining stock.  Chill.
  When ready to serve, garnish the soup with thin avocado slices that have
  been cut from the remaining avocado half and dipped in lemon juice.
  Serves 4 to 6.
  From:  SUNDAYS AT MOOSEWOOD RESTAURANT, Simon & Schuster/ Fireside, New
  York. 1990 Posted by: Karin Brewer, Cooking Echo, 7/92
      Title: Curried Broccoli Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables, Spicy
   Servings:  4
      2 lb Broccoli
           Salt
  3 3/4 c  Chicken Stock
      1 tb Butter Or Vegetable Oil
      1 md Onion, Finely Chopped
      2 ts Curry Powder
      1 pn Cayenne Pepper
      1 tb Cornstarch
    2/3 c  Whipping Cream
    1/2 c  Fresh Watercress, Finely
           -Chopped
  Servings: 4 Cooking Time: 30 Minutes
  Clean the broccoli and cut it into pieces.  Cover with the boiling water
  with 1 Tsp of salt added and cook for about 15 minutes, until it is tender.
  Drain, mash and add to the chicken stock in a heavy saucepan. Heat the
  butter in a separate pan and brown the onion lightly. Add the onion to the
  stock.
  In the remaining butter in the pan, fry the curry powder and cayenne to a
  dark brown.  Stir in the cornflour and cook to a smooth paste. Add a little
  of the stock to this, blending well, and return everything to the saucepan.
  Allow to simmer for 5 minutes, then press all through a sieve or puree in a
  blender.  Add more salt to taste, if needed. Chill well. Add the chilled
  cream just before serving. Sprinkle with the chopped watercress.
  From How To Make Good Curries by Helen Lawson  Copyright 1973
      Title: Curried Carrot Soup
 Categories: Soups, Curry
   Servings:  6
      1 tb Butter or margarine
      1    Bell pepper chopped
     12    Carrots , thinly sliced
    1/2 c  Water
      1 tb Sugar (optional)
      3 tb Butter
      2 tb Flour
      2 c  Chicken stock
      2 c  Milk
           Salt and pepper to taste
      1 ds Curry (optional)
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
  Melt one tablespoon butter in a large skillet. Add pepper and carrots and
  cook, stirring occasionally for 5 minutes. Add water and sugar, cover and
  cook for 20 minutes.
  Meanwhile, melt 3 tablespoons butter in a large saucepan over low heat. Add
  flour and cook for 3 minutes. Whisk in the warm chicken stock, then the
  milk. Add the carrot mixture, salt, pepper and curry. Bring to a boil,
  stirring constantly. Reduce to a simmer and simmer for 30 minutes. Puree in
  a blender or food processor until smooth. Stir in just enough cream to
  richen. Can be served hot or cold.
      Title: Curried Carrot Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
  2 1/2 c  Chicken Broth
      4    Carrots, Peeled & Sliced
    1/2 ts Curry Powder
    1/8 ts Hot Pepper Sauce
           Salt & Pepper
           Plain Lowfat Yogurt
           Dillweed
  Heat 1/4 C. Broth in Heavy Small Saucepan Over Medium Heat.  Add Carrots &
  Simmer Until Tender, About 15 Min. Drain. Puree Carrots in Processor Until
  Smooth.  Transfer To Heavy Large Sauce Pan. Place Over Medium Heat. Stir in
  Remaining 2 &1/4 C. Broth, Curry Powder & Hot Pepper Sauce. Season With
  Salt & Pepper. (Can Be Prepared One Day Ahead. Cover & Refrigerate. Bring
  To A Boil. Reduce Heat & Simmer Five Min. Ladle Soup Into Bowls. Garnish
  With Yogurt And Dillweed. Serve Immediately.
      Title: Curried Coconut Soup
 Categories: Soups, Spicy
   Servings:  4
      1    Sm. onion, chopped (1/4 cup)
      1 ts Curry powder
    1/4 c  Water
      3 c  Milk
      1 c  Flaked coconut
      2    Whole cloves
    1/2 ts Salt
      2    Beaten egg yolks
           Toasted coconut (optional)
  In 2-quart saucepan cook onion and curry powder in water till onion is
  tender. Stir in milk, coconut, cloves, and salt. Simmer, covered, for 15
  minutes. Strain mixture through a sieve.Stir about 1 cup of the hot milk
  mixture into the egg yolks. Return to remaining milk mixture in saucepan.
  Cook and stir about 2 minutes or till mixture thickens slightly. Remove
  from heat; cover and chill. Garnish each serving with toasted coconut if
  desired. Makes 4 to 6 servings.
  Recipe from: Better Homes and Gardens, Soups & Stews Cookbook copyright
  1978 by Meredith Corporation, Des Moines, Iowa
      Title: Curried Cucumber and Tomato Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      1 md Seedless English cucumber,
           -peeled
      1 md Ripe tomato, peeled
      1 tb Chopped onion
      1 sm Clove garlic, chopped
    1/4 ts Curry powder
           Pinch each of nutmeg, salt
           -and pepper
    1/2 c  Water
      1 tb Cider or wine vinegar
      2    To 4 drops hot pepper sauce
      2 ts Sugar
  Prep time:  10 minutes Cool time: 1 hour
  This cool, crisp soup is best made in summer when the tomatoes and
  cucumbers are in season, but make sure they are peeled because their peel
  will be too bitter in this combination.
  chopped, fresh parsley, optional
  Chop cucumber and tomatoe into medium sized chunks.  In container of
  blender or food processor, combine cucumber, tomato, onion, garlic,curry,
  nutmeg, salt, pepper, water, vinegar, hot pepper sauce and sugar. Puree
  until smooth. Pour into a large bowl or pitcher.  Chill at least 1 hour.
  Pour into soup bowls or mugs.  Garnish with chopped parsley, if desired.
  Makes 4 cups.
  Origin: Light & Easy Choices Shared by: Sharon Stevens.
      Title: Curried Peanut Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      1 tb Peanut oil
      1 md Onion, halved, sliced
      3    Minced garlic cloves
      3 tb Curry powder
      4 c  (or more) chicken stock or
           -canned broth
    1/3 c  Rice
      3 md Carrots, peeled, sliced
    1/2 c  Creamy peanut butter (do not
           -use old-fashioned style or
           -freshly
           Ground)
  1 1/2 ts Sugar
  finely chopped green onions chopped fresh cilantro
  Heat oil in heavy large saucepan over medium-high heat.  Add onion, garlic,
  and curry powder and saute' until onion is translucent, about 6 minutes.
  Add 4 cups stock and bring to a boil.  Stir in rice and carrots.  Reduce
  heat and simmer until rice is very tender, stirring occasionally, about 20
  minutes. Puree half of soup in blender or processor with peanut butter.
  Return puree to sacepan.  (Can be prepared 1 day ahead.  Cover and
  refrigerate.)  Stir soup until heated through, thinning with more stock, if
  desired.  Do not boil.  Mix in sugar.  Ladle soup into bowls.  Sprinkle
  with green onions and cilantro. Makes 4 servings.
      Title: Curried Zucchini Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  6
      2 lb Zucchini, chopped
      2    Scallions, sliced
      2    Carrots, chopped
      1 tb Curry powder
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      1 cn (13.75 oz) chicken broth
  In large saucepan cook zucchini, scallions, carrots and curry powder in
  butter until crisp-tender, about 8 to 10 minutes, stirring frequently.
  Add chicken broth and 1 1/2 cups water.  Bring to boil; reduce heat to low,
  cover and simmer for 7 to 10 minutes or until vegetables are tender.
  Remove saucepan from heat.  In bowl of food processor, process half the
  soup, about 3 cups, until smooth.  Pour pureed soup back into saucepan with
  remaining soup; heat through, if necessary.
  Season with salt to taste.  Serve with a fresh tossed garden salad.
  Makes 6 servings.
  Women's World
  Posted by Jim Vorheis. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Curried Zucchini Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  8
      8 md Zucchini (about 2 lbs.),
           -washed, ends trimmed and
           -cut into
           Thick slices
      4 c  Chicken broth
      2 md Onions, chopped
      1 tb Curry powder, or to taste
  1 1/2 c  Milk or cream
  Set aside a few zucchini slices for garnish.  In medium saucepan combine
  remaining zucchini, broth, onions and curry powder.  Cover; simmer,
  stirring occasionally until vegetables are tender.  Puree in blender, food
  processor or food mill, in several batches if necessary. Return puree to
  saucepan; add milk; heat (do not boil).
  Makes 8 servings.
  From Woman's Day Magazine, May 22, 1984
  Posted by Kathy Campbell. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Curry-Laced Tomato-Lentil Broth
 Categories: Soups, Beans, Curry
   Servings:  8
      1 c  Red lentils
      4 c  Water
    1/4 ts Turmeric
      2 c  Canned crushed tomatoes
  1 1/2 ts Cumin
      2 ts Ground coriander
    1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
      1 ts Minced onion
      1 ts Minced garlic
           Salt to taste
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      1 ts Black mustard seeds
      2 tb Chopped fresh coriander
  From "Classic Indian Vegetarian and Grain Cooking," by Julie Sahni (William
  Morrow).
  Wash lentils thoroughly. Place in a pot with 3 cups water and turmeric.
  Cook, partially covered, until very tender, about 30 minutes.
  Combine lentils and 1 cup water in a deep pot. Whisk to crush some of the
  lentils. Add the tomatoes, cumin, ground coriander, cayenne, onion, garlic
  and salt and bring to a boil. Lower heat and cook, partially covered, 10
  minutes. Add lemon juice.
  Heat oil in a small skillet until hot. Add mustard seeds and cover so the
  seeds do not fly out of the pan. When they stop spattering, mix into soup.
  Stir in fresh coriander.
  Makes 6-8 servings.
      Title: Cutlass Potato Soup
 Categories: Soups, Potatoes
   Servings:  8
           Jim Vorehis
      5    Bacon slices
      2 tb (1/4 stick) butter
      3    Medium-large boiling
           -potatoes, peeled and
           -chopped
      4 md Celery stalks, chopped
      1 lg Carrot, chopped
    1/2 md Onion, chopped
      3 c  Water
      2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Freshly ground pepper
      2 c  Milk
      2 tb Cornstarch dissolved in 1/2
           -cup cold water
  Fry bacon in heavy large saucepan over medium-high heat until crisp. Remove
  with slotted spoon; drain on paper towels.  Crumble bacon and set aside.
  Pour off drippings.  Melt butter in same pan over medium heat. Add
  vegetables and cook until slightly softened, stirring occasionally, about
  15 minutes.  Add bacon, water, salt and pepper.  Cover and simmer until
  vegetables are tender, about 20 minutes.  Add milk and heat through. Stir
  in dissolved cornstarch and cook until soup thickens, about 5 minutes.
  Serve immediately.
  Cutlass Motor Lodge - Antigo, WI.
  Posted by Jim Vorheis. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Danablu Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
  1 1/2 tb Butter
  2 1/2 tb Flour
      4 c  Boiling Water
      4    Chicken Bouillon Cubes
  1 1/2 c  Danish Blue Cheese, Crumbled
      2 c  Half And Half
    1/2 c  Whipping Cream, Whipped
      1 tb Parsley, Finely Chopped
  In a large 3-quart saucepan, melt butter and blend in flour.  Remove from
  heat and stir in boiling water, a little at a time.  Bring to a rolling
  boil.  Add bouillon cubes and stir to dissove.  Add crumbled Danish Blue
  Cheese, stirring as cheese is added to dissolve.  Return to boiling and
  boil 10 minutes.  (This is necessary to develop flavour).  Reduce heat and
  add the half and half, stirring constantly.  Heat just to boiling and serve
  hot, adding a spoonful of the topping to each serving.
      Title: Dandelion Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
    3/4 lb Tender dandelion leaves
  1 1/2 qt Chicken consomme
      4    Egg yolks
    1/2 c  Romano cheese, freshly
           -grated
  Salt & freshly gound pepper
  Parboil dandelion leaves; drain, chop, and set aside.  Place the consomme
  in a soup kettle and bring to a rolling boil.  Add the chopped dandelions
  and boil 10 minutes.  Beat the egg yolks, add the cheese and blend well.
  Remove the soup from the stove and add the cheese mixture gradually,
  stirring until the soup thickens slightly.  Adjust the seasonings. Serve
  hot.  Serves four.
      Title: Danish Pea Soup with Pork
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      1 lb Yellow Split Peas, Washed *
      2 lb Lean Bacon Or Smoked Pork **
      3 md Carrots, Scraped
           Celery Root, Peeled, Qrted.
      4 md Leeks, White Parts   ***
      2 md Onions, Peeled & Halved
    1/2 ts Dried Thyme
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 lb Pork Sausage Links   ****
  * washed and drained ** in one piece *** use white parts of leeks only,
  cleaned and washed **** cook and drain sausage links
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Soak peas in cold water according to package directions.  Put in a large
  kettle with 6 cups water.  Cook slowly, covered, 1 1/2 hours, until tender.
  Put bacon, carrots, celery root, leeks, onions, thyme, salt, and pepper in
  another kettle.  Cover with water.  Cook slowly, covered, 40 minutes until
  vegetables and bacon are tender.  Take out bacon; slice and keep warm.
  Remove vegetables and add to cooked split peas with as much as the broth in
  which the vegetables were cooked as desired to thin the soup. Reheat, if
  necessary.  Ladle soup, including vegetables, into wide soup plates and
  serve sliced bacon and the cooked sausage links separately on a platter.
  Serve with dark bread, mustard and beer.
      Title: Dinner Chowder
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  6
      2 c  Raw diced potatoes
    3/4 c  Minced onion
    1/2 c  Deiced celery
  2 1/2 ts Salt
  2 1/2 c  Boiling water
      4 tb Corn oil
      4 tb Flour
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
  1 1/2 ts Bottled meat sauce (????)
      2 c  Milk
      1 c  Grated cheddar cheese
      1 tb Minced parsley
      1 c  Canned tomatoes, drained and
           -chopped.
  Combine potatoes, onion, celery, salt and boiling water in a deep kettle.
  Simmer until tender, about 15 minutes.  Heat oil and stir in flour until
  smooth.  Add the next four ingredients while stirring.  Cook until
  thickened.  Add cheese and stir all into the potato mixture.  Add parsley
  and tomatoes.  Heat through but not boil.
  Posted by Sharon Stevens. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Dinner-In-A-Bowl
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      4    Ham hocks
    1/2 lb Sweet Italian sausage
    1/2 lb German sausage
           Water
      4 md Potatoes - quartered
      4 md Carrots - large chunk
      1 sm Cabbage - quartered
      1 lg Onion, sliced
    1/4 c  Parsley flakes
      2    Bay leaves
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Thyme leaves
           Pepper to taste
  Servings:  4
  Put ham hocks and sausages in large pot, almost cover with water. Simmer
  for one hour.  Remove hocks, cut off meat, discard bones.  Add remaining
  ingredients, cover and simmer until vegetables are tender.  Cut meat into
  bite size pieces.  Remove bay leaves.
  Serve in soup bowls.
  Posted by Sheila Exner. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Downtown Black Bean Soup
 Categories: Beans, Soups
   Servings:  6
      2    And 1/2 quarts water or
           -vegetable stock and stir
           -into it
      2 c  Black beans and 2 bay
           -leaves.
  Bring to a boil
  Turn down the heat and let simmer a couple of hours until the beans start
  to get tender, then heat 1/4 to 3/4 cup olive oil (how much will your
  conscience allow?) and cook in it until tender but not browned
  3 onions, chopped 2 green peppers, chopped 1 fresh jalepeno pepper, chopped
  (optional) 4 to 6 cloves of garlic, pressed 1 to 3 teaspoons salt, maybe
  more (taste it)
  Stir this mixture into the simmering black beans and let cook until quite
  tender and flavorful. More salt may be needed, and if you have a chance to
  let the soup sit overnight at this point, it will be even better. If
  desired, puree half or all of this to smoothness; we like it half-pureed,
  half-chunky. If you do puree it, be sure to reheat it before serving it,
  either as is or Cuban-style: bowls of steaming hot white rice and dishes of
  chopped raw onions are on the table, and each person stirs as much or as
  little rice and onions as they wish into their soup.
  From: The Dairy Hollow House Cookbook Crescent Dragonwagon with Jan Brown
      Title: Dried Onion Soup Mix
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  1
           From: WMSK21B
    1/2 ts Onion powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Kitchen Bouquet
    1/2 c  Dried onions, chopped/minced
  In small bowl, combine onion powder, salt, sugar. Add Kitchen Bouquet and
  stir until seasonings are uniformly brown. Add onion and mix thoroughly
  until color is again even. (This step takes several minutes.) Makes 1/2 cup
  mix which is equivalent to one 1/5 ounce envelope of dried soup mix. Store
  unused mix in the refrigerator.
      Title: Duke's Clam Chowder
 Categories: Soups, Seafood
   Servings:  8
    1/4 lb Potatos, new, diced
      4    Ea. bacon slices, diced
      6 tb Butter
      3    Ea. celery ribs, diced
      1    Ea. onion, medium, peeled
           -and diced
      2 ts Chopped fresh basil
      1 ts Dried marjoram
      1 ts Dried Italian seasoning
    1/2 ts Dried thyme
      2 ea Bay leaves
      1 ea Pinch chopped fresh garlic
           White, black and Cayenne
           -peppers to taste
    1/3 c  Flour
      4 c  Whipping cream
    1/2 c  Half and half
  1 1/4 c  Clam nectar or broth
      2 oz Clam concentrate (or 1
           -addtl. c. clam nectar)
  1 1/2 c  Clams, chopped, fresh or
           -frozen
    1/4 ts Dill
      2 tb Parsley, fresh, chopped
  1.  Blanch the potatoes in boiling water for 5 minutes, or until tender.
  Drain and set aside.
  2.  Cook bacon until transparent.  Add butter, celery, onion, basil,
  marjoram, italian seasoning, thyme, bay leaves, garlic and peppers to
  taste.  Cook until vegetables are tender, about 10 minutes.
  3.  Stir in the flour and cook over low heat, 3 to 4 minutes.  Stir in the
  cream, half and half, clam nectar and concentrate.  Heat to just under
  boiling.
  4.  Add potatoes and chopped clams.  Bring to slow boil and cook for 2 to 3
  minutes.  Discard bay leaves.  Stir in dill and parsley; serve.
  Makes 8 servings.
  Posted by Bob Stein. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Dutch Green Split-Pea Soup
 Categories: Soups, Low-cal
   Servings:  2
      2 oz Canadian-style bacon
      2 c  Water, divided
  1 1/2 oz Green split peas, sorted and
           -rinsed
      6 oz Pared potatoes, diced
    1/2 c  Chopped leeks
    1/2 c  Celeriac, pared and diced
      2 tb Celery leaves
      4 oz "precooked" kielbasa,
           -1/4-inch thick rounds
    1/8 ts Summer savory leaves
           Pepper to taste
  Cut bacon into small pieces and set aside.  Bring 1 cup water to a boil in
  2-quart saucepan; add dry peas and boil for 3 minutes.  Remove from heat,
  cover and let stand for 1 hour.  Add remaining water and the bacon to
  saucepan and bring to a boil.  Reduce heat, partially cover, and let simmer
  for 1 hour.  Add potatoes, leeks, celeriac and celery leaves; cook until
  vegetables are tender, about 30 minutes.  Add kielbasa, savory and pepper;
  cook until sausage is heated through.  Serve hot.
  Makes 2 servings.
  [WEIGHT WATCHERS NEW INTERNATIONAL COOKBOOK] Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Dutch Leek Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetarian
   Servings:  8
    3/4 c  Whole wheat flour
      2    Cubes bouillon
      2 qt Water
      1 c  Milk
    1/8 ts Ground mace
      5    Leeks, cleaned, chopped
    1/4 c  Whipping cream
      2 c  Shredded Edam or Gouda
           Cheese
  Blend together flour, bouillon cubes and water.  Stir in milk and mace.
  Bring to a boil; immediately reduce heat to simmer; simmer 10 minutes.  Add
  leeks and cream; simmer 10 minutes.  Serve cheese with soup at the table.
      Title: Dutch Pea Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      2 c  Dried green split, peas
      2 qt Water
    1/2 c  Diced celery
    1/2 c  Shredded carrots
    1/2 c  Chopped leeks (white parts
           -only)
      1 c  Cubed cooked ham
    1/2 ts Seasoned salt
    1/2 ts Freshly ground pepper
  1.   In a large saucepan or a slow-cooker, combine peas, water, celery,
  carrots, leeks, ham, seasoned salt and pepper.
  2.   Cover and cook over low heat about 10 hours.  If using a saucepan,
  stir every few hours to keep mixture from sticking.
  3.   The flavor is even better if you cool the soup, refrigerate it, then
  reheat the next day.
      Title: Easy Mushroom Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
           Ingredients:
      3 c  Chicken Stock*
      3    Scallions (green onion)
           -sliced
      1 sm Slice fresh ginger
  1 1/2 c  Sliced fresh mushrooms
      2 tb Apple Juice or Cider
           Salt and pepper to taste
  Add the stock and ginger (wrap ginger in cheesecloth) to the pot of your
  choice.  Bring to a boil. Reduce heat to low, cover, and simmer for
  approximately 20 minutes.  Ad mushrooms and scallions; simmer for an
  additional 15 minutes.  Remove ginger you placed in cheezecloth. Ad apple
  juice or cider and season to taste.  Serve piping hot.
  *You can substitute your choice of chicken broth in a can, although fresh
  home made chicken stock tastes better.
      Title: Edna Lewis' Thirteen-Bean Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
    1/2 c  Dried black beans, washed,
           -picked over
      2 c  Packaged 13-bean soup mix,
           -washed, picked over
      1 lb Smoked pork shoulder, or
           -meaty ham bone
      1 md Onion
      1 ts Dried thyme
      1    Bay leaf
           Freshly ground black pepper
      3 qt Cold water
           Salt
      1 c  Fresh or canned tomatoes,
           -peeled, seeded, and chopped
  1 cup     fresh or canned tomatoes, peeled, seeded, and chopped 1/2 cup
  olive oil 1/4 cup good sherry
  In a large kettle, cover beans with water, refrigerate and soak overnight.
  The next day, drain beans, add pork or ham bone,onion, thyme, bay leaf,
  pepper, and cold water.  Set over medium-high heat and bring to simmer.
  Reduce heat and keep at simmer for 2 1/2 hours.  Cool, remove onion,
  hambone and fat; cut up meat into small pieces.  Season with salt and
  pepper as needed.  Add tomatoes and olive oil.  Put half the mixture in a
  blender and blend until almost smooth, but not liquified.  Add to whole
  bean mixture.  To serve, stir in sherry and reheat.  Ladle into warm soup
  bowls.
  Makes 4 to 6 servings.
  [WASHINGTON POST  JAN 11, 1989] Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Elephant Stew
 Categories: Soups
   Servings: 3800
      1 md Elephant
      1    Ton pepper
      1    Ton salt
    500    Bushels potatoes
    200    Bushels carrots
   4000    Sprigs parsley
      2 sm Rabbits, optional
  Cut the elephant meat into bite-size pieces.  This will take about 2
  months.  Cut vegetables into cubes (another 2 months).  Place meat in pan
  and cover with 1,000 gallons of brown gravey and simmer for 4 weeks.
  Shovel in salt and pepper to taste.  When the meat is tender, add the
  vegetables.
  A steam shovel is useful for this.
  Simmer slowly for four more weeks.  Garnish with parsley.
  If more are expected, add the two rabbits - this is not recommened, as very
  few people like hare in their stew.
  What's Cooking In Our National Parks Elaine Hounsell, Lake Mead NRA
      Title: Escargot - Chanterelle Stew
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  2
    1/2 lb Chanterelles; trimmed
      4 tb Butter
      8    Parsley stems;finely chopped
      5    Scallions; finely chopped
      1    Clove garlic; finely chopped
     16    Snails
      2 tb Flour
      2 c  Chicken stock
      1 c  Dry white wine
      1 ts Basil
      2    Cloves
      1 ts Thyme
      1    Bay leaf
           Salt and white pepper
      3    Egg yolks
      1 tb White vinegar
      3 tb Cream
  Slice a few of the chanterelles and cook them in the butter for 5 minutes.
  Skim the slices from the pan and reserve for garnishing the stew. Add the
  parsley stems, scallions, garlic, snails and the remaining chanterelles to
  the butter and cook for 5 minutes.  Add the flour and stir until the flour
  looks gritty.  Slowly add the chicken stock, wine, herbs and spices, season
  to taste, and simmer for 2 hours.
  Beat the egg yolks, vinegar and cream together and stir in a little of the
  simmering liquid.  Turn the heat to the lowest point and add the egg yolk
  mixture to the stew.  Stir until creamy and silken.  Serve in shallow
  bowls, garnished with the chanterelle slices.
  Source: The Captain Whidley Inn, Washington state.  From: "American
  Bistro", an Irene Chalmers book, Contemporary Books, Inc.
      Title: Escarole Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
    1/4 lb White beans
      5 c  Chicken broth
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 tb Minced garlic
      1 sm Onion; finely diced
      2 c  Chopped escarole
           Salt and pepper; to taste
  SOAK THE BEANS OVERNIGHT IN WATER. Drain. Place beans in a pot, add broth,
  cover and cook over medium heat until beans are soft, about 30 minutes.
  Meanwhile, place another pot on the stove, add oil, place over medium heat,
  add garlic and onion and cook, stirring occasionally, for 7 minutes, or
  until onions soften. Add the escarole and continue to cook until wilted,
  another 10 minutes. Add the beans and broth to the pot with the escarole.
  Add salt and pepper as desired, cover and simmer for 20 minutes. Serve
  piping hot.
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
      Title: Finnish Summer Soup
 Categories: Soups, Potatoes, Vegetables
   Servings:  5
      2 c  Water
      6 sm Potatoes *
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts White Pepper
      2 tb Butter Or Margarine
      6 sm Boiling Onions **
     12 x  Young Fresh Baby Carrots ***
    1/2 lb Young Fresh Green Beans ****
      2 c  Fresh Shelled Tiny Peas
      2 c  Half And Half (Light Cream)
      3 tb All-Purpose Flour
  *  Potatoes peeled and halved ** or 6 green onions (including tops), cut
  into 3-inch lengths *** 1/2 lb. **** cut into 1-inch lengths
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Heat water to boiling in a wide 5-quart pan; add potatoes.  Reduce heat;
  cover and simmer for 5 minutes.  Add salt, pepper, butter, onions, carrots,
  and green beans; simmer for 8 more minutes.  Add peas and cook for another
  2 minutes or until vegetables are crisp-tender.  In a small bowl, stir
  together half and half and flour until smooth; stir into simmering
  vegetables.  Cook, stirring until soup slightly thickened (about 5 minutes)
  Serving size: 1-2/3 cup Per serving: 9 grams protein, 34 grams
  carbohydrates, 49 milligrams cholesterol, 292 calories.  May be served with
  open faced sandwiches of cream cheese on rye, decorated with sliced
  vegetables.
      Title: Fish Chowder
 Categories: Soups, Fresh herbs
   Servings:  4
      1 c  Water
      1 c  Diced Potatoes
      3    Slices Of Bacon
      1 md Onion
    3/4 lb Fish Fillets
    1/8 ts Thyme
      1 c  Half And Half
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2 tb Fresh Parsley
  Bring water to a boil in a Dutch oven; add potatoes.  Cover and cook 10
  minutes.  Fry bacon until transparent; add onion, and cook until onion is
  soft and bacon is lightly browned. Add bacon, onion, bacon drippings, fish
  fillets, and thyme to potatoes.  Simmer 10 minutes or until potatoes are
  tender.  Stir in half and half, salt, pepper, simmer 5 minutes.  Sprinkle
  with parsley.
      Title: Fish Chowder
 Categories: Soups, Fish, Camping
   Servings:  6
    1/2 lb Bacon
  1 1/2 c  Chopped onion
      6 lg Potaotes, peeled and sliced
           Salt and pepper
      1 ds Of whiskey
           Milk to cover
           Chunk of butter
           Paprika
  Fillets of a variety of just-caught fish
  Slice the bacon into 1/2-inch strips and fry until crisp.  Drain. Saute the
  onions in the bacon fat; let the potatoes brown a bit in the hot fat. Add
  enough water to cover the potatoes and cook until they are tender. Add the
  fish fillets.  Cover and cook for about 10 minutes. Season to taste, and
  add a good dash of whiskey (and some for the cook). Cover with milk and
  simmer until you have stew.  Drop in a chunk of butter to melt. Sprinkle
  with paprika and the cooked bacon and serve hot.
  The number this recipe will serve depends on how many fish were caught.
  [MID-ATLANTIC COUNTRY; April 1988]
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Fish Chowder
 Categories: Soups, 1941
   Servings:  6
      2 c  Shredded salmon
      1 c  Diced potatoes
      1 sm Onion, chopped
      1 c  Cooked tomatoes
      2 c  Water
      1 tb Diced bacon or salt pork
      1 tb Butter or butter substitute
           Salt and pepper
      2    Bouillon cubes
  Brown bacon in hot frying pan.  Add onion.  Cook until slightly browned.
  Add potatoes, tomatoes, water, butter, and bouillon cubes. Cover. Simmer
  until vegetables are tender.  Season to taste. Add salmon. Heat thoroughly.
  Serve at once. 6 servings.
  Priscilla Robinson, Jackson, MI.
      Title: Fish Soup with Fennel
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      1 lb Flounder
           Bones from fish
      1    Bay leaf
      4    Parsley stalks
      2    Lovage stalks
  6 1/4 c  Cold water
           Sea salt
      6    Black peppercorns
      1    Small onion
      1    Carrot
      1    Leek
    1/2 lb Hake
      2 tb Butter
      1 tb Flour
      2 tb Sour cream
      2 tb Chopped fennel leaves
  Put the fish bones in a pan with the bay leaf, parsley, and lovage.  Cover
  with cold water, add salt and peppercorns, and bring to boil.  Simmer for
  30 minutes.  Peel and chop the onion and carrot.  Trim and chop the leek.
  Put them in a saucepan.  Pour the fish stock over the vegetables through a
  seive (strainer).  Bring to a boil, then let simmer for another 30 minutes,
  then put in the hake.  Simmer for 15 minutes, or until the hake is cooked.
  Remove the hake and put the plaice (flounder) filets into the pan. Simmer
  for 5 minutes, then remove them.  Cool the soup slightly, then puree it in
  a blender. Melt the butter in a clean pan, stir in the flour and cook for
  one minute.  Stir in the blended soup and simmer for 3 minutes, stirring.
  Add salt and pepper to taste.  Take the hake off the bone and chop it; skin
  the plaice (flounder) filets and chop them.  Put both sorts of fish into
  the soup and stir in the sour cream.  When all is hot, add the chopped
  fennel and stand, covered, for 3 to 4 minutes before serving. Serve as is,
  or with fennel dumplings.
      Title: Fish Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  1
      4 tb Olive oil
      1 md Chopped onion
      3 cl Garlic, minced
      4 cn Minced clams
      4 c  Peeled and chopped tomatos
      1 c  Finely chopped carrots
      2 c  Finely chopped celery
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
    1/2 ts Oregano
    1/2 ts Paprika
      4    Bay leaves
  1 1/2 lb Shrimp
      1 lb Scallops
      2 cn Beef broth
      2 cn Chicken broth
      4 cn Water
      1 lb Cut bite size haddock
      1 lb Cut bite size cod
  Saute onion, garlic, olive oil in heavy pan until golden. Add clams,
  tomatos, carrots, celery, broth, water and spices. Simmer for about 1 hour.
  Add fish and scallops. Let come to a boil. Add shrimp. Let it come to a
  boil till fish flakes with a fork.
      Title: Fish Soup
 Categories: Soups, Osg, Seafood
   Servings:  1
    1/2 cn Salmon
      1 cn Clam juice
      1 qt Milk
           Pepper; a dash
      1 tb Butter
  Cook salmon and clam juice. Heat milk, butter and add to salmon and clam
  juice. Source: MRs. Bessie J. Wade, Acme Grange, Lorain County, OH
      Title: Fisherman Chowder
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  1
    1/4 lb Bacon cut in small pieces
      1 ts Paprika
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      1 c  Diced raw potato
      1 cn (6.5-oz) chopped clams
           With liquid
    1/4 c  White wine
      1 c  Crab legs/imitation crab
      1 c  Shrimp
      1 c  Scallops halved/quartered
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1    Bay leaf
    1/2 ts Thyme
  2 1/2 c  Skim milk
    1/2 c  Instant mashed potatoes to
           Thicken
           Any other shellfish you
           Like
  In a heavy soup pot or kettle, brown the bacon with the paprika, onion and
  potato, sauteing until potato and onions are soft and bacon is cooked. Add
  the clams, wine, crab legs, shrimp, scallops and nay other seafood or fish.
  Season with salt and pepper, bay leaf and thyme. Stir in the milk and heat
  over low flame, stirring constantly. Do not allow mixture to boil. When
  seafood and fish are thoroughly heated through, thicken chowder by adding
  instant potatoes. Remove bay leaf and serve. Chowder may be prepared ahead,
  refrigerated, then re-heated in a crock pot or over very low heat.
      Title: Fisherman's Bouillabaisse
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
    1/4 c  Olive Oil
      2 md Cloves Garlic, Fine Chopped
      1 c  Water
    1/2 c  Dry White Wine
      1    Env. Soup Mix *
      1 tb Finely Chopped Parsley
      1 ts Thyme Leaves
 14 1/2 oz **
  1 1/2 lb Lobster Tails ***
      1 lb Fish ****
      6    Clams, Well Scrubbed
      6    Mussels, Well Scrubbed
  * Soup mixes to be used.  Choose one.  Onion or Onion-Mushroom. ** Canned
  tomatoes should be whole peeled tomatoes, undrained and *** There should be
  about 3 lobster tails that are cut into 3-inch **** Fish that can be used.
  Choose one.  Red Snapper, cod, or halibut.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  In large saucepan or stockpot, heat oil and cook garlic over medium heat
  until golden.  Add water, wine, onion recipe soup mix, parsley, and thyme,
  blend thoroughly.  Stir in tomatoes.  Bring to a boil, then simmer covered
  15 minutes.  Add lobster and fish and simmer 10 minutes.  Add clams and
  mussels and simmer an additional 5 minutes or until shells open. (DISCARD
  ANY UNOPENED SHELLS).  Serve, if desired, with bread or rolls.  Makes about
  4 (2 cup) servings.
      Title: Five Bean Soup
 Categories: Beans, Soups, Vegetarian
   Servings:  6
    1/2 c  Navy beans; dried
    1/2 c  Lima beans; white dried
    1/2 c  Chick peas; dried (garbanzo
    1/2 c  Red beans; dried (kidney be
    1/2 c  Black beans; dried
  3 1/2 c  Water; or beef stock
           Salt
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      1    Onion; chopped
      2 tb Dry sherry
      3    Cl Garlic; minced
      1    Green bell pepper; cored, s
      1    Carrot; diced
      1    Celery; diced
  1 1/2 ts Cumin; ground
      1 ts Coriander seeds; coarsely g
      1 ts Orange peel; grated
    1/4 ts Freshly ground pepper
    1/4 ts Red pepper flakes; dried (o
           Rice; freshly cooked (optio
           Sour cream; or yogurt
           Cilantro; fresh, chopped
      Rinse and sort beans.  Place beans in large pot; add enough cold water
  to cover by 3 inches.  Let stand overnight.
      Drain beans and return to pot.  Add 3-1/2 cups water.  Bring to boil.
  Adjust heat so liquid barely simmers.  Cover and cook until beans are
  tender, stirring occasionally, about 1-1/2 hours.  Season to taste with
  salt.
      Heat oil in heavy skillet over low heat.  Add onion, Sherry and garlic.
  Cover and cook until onion is soft, stirring occasionally, about 15
  minutes.  Add bell pepper, carrot, celery, cumin and coriander. Cover and
  continue cooking until vegetables are tender, stirring occasionally, about
  15 minutes.  Add vegetable mixture to beans. Stir in orange peel, pepper
  and 1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes if desired. Place rice in bowls. Spoon
  soup over.  Top each with dollop of sour cream or yogurt. Garnish with
  chopped cilantro and serve. Serves 6. Recipe from Bon Appetit, October,
  1987.
      Title: Florida Bouillabaisse
 Categories: Fish, Seafood, Soups, Stew
   Servings:  6
      2 lb Fish fillets, cut into
           -pieces
      1 lb Shelled shrimp
      2    Softshell turtles, cleaned
           -and parboiled until tender.
           -Cut into
           Small pieces
      6    Blue crabs, boil and remove
           -meat, or one 7-1/2 oz. can
           -crabmeat
     12    Clams or one 7-1/2 oz. can
           -chopped clams
      1 md Onion, sliced and 1/2 cup
           -diced green onions
    1/2 c  Chopped celery
    1/2 c  Green pepper
    1/2 c  Sliced mushrooms
    1/4 c  Chopped parsley
      2    One lb. cans tomatoes
      2    Cloves minced garlic
    1/2 ts Thyme
    1/2 ts Saffron
      2    Bay leaves
    1/2 c  Oil
      1 c  White wine
           Hot sauce to taste
      2 c  Fish stock
  This is a Florida chowder... it goes real good with "french" bread.
  Saute vegetables in oil until soft, about 10 minutes.  Add wine, stock,
  tomatoes and bring to a boil.  Add fish and remaining ingredients. Cook
  over medium heat for 15 minutes.  Turn on low and simmer for 20 minutes.
  Posted by Bill Mathews. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Four Cheese Soup
 Categories: Soups, Cheese, Vegetarian
   Servings:  6
      2 tb Unsalted butter
      1    Med. leek - white & pale
           -green parts only, chopped
      4 c  Chicken stock - or canned
           -low-salt broth
      1    Med. potato - boiling type,
           -peeled and diced
      2 c  Half and Half
    3/4 c  Provolone cheese - grated
           -(about 3 ounces)
    3/4 c  Parmesan - fresly grated
           -(about 3 ounces)
    3/4 c  Mozzarella - grated (about 3
           -ounces)
    3/4 c  Cheedar cheese - grated
           -(about 3 ounces)
           Croutons
  Number of Servings:   6
  Melt butter in heavy large saucepan over medium heat.  Add leek and saute
  until tender, about 5 minutes.  Add stock and potato and bring to boil.
  Reduce heat and simmer for 25 minutes, stirring occasionally. Puree soup in
  batches in processor or blender.  Return soup to saucepan. Add Half and
  Half and bring to simmer.  (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and
  refrigerate.  Bring to simmer before continuing.)
  Gradually add all cheeses to soup and whisk until melted.  Ladle soup into
  bowls.  Sprinkle with croutons.
  Recipe from Caruso's Palace, Orlando, Florida. Courtesy of Bon Appetit,
  September, 1991.
  Posted by Michelle Bass. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: French Canadian Pea Soup
 Categories: Canadian, Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  1
      1 lb Dried peas
      8 c  -Water
    1/2 lb Salt pork-all in one piece
      1    Onion, large;chopped
    1/2 c  Celery;chopped
    1/4 c  Carrots;grated
    1/4 c  Parsley; fresh,chopped
      1    Bay leaf;small
      1 ts Savory, dried
           -Salt and Pepper
  "Newfoundland Pea Soup is very similar, but usually includes more
  vegetables such as diced turnips and carrots, and is often topped with
  small dumplings. This soup is very good reheated.. The most authentic
  version of Quebec's soupe aux pois use whole yellow peas, with salt pork
  and herbs for flavour. After cooking, the pork is usually chopped and
  returned to the soup, or sometimes removed to slice thinly and served
  sepaprately. Instead of fresh or dried herbs, herbes salees (herbs
  preserved with salt) are often used; they are available commercially or
  made at home.
    Pea soup remains a popular dish in resturants where tourists enjoy a true
  taste of old Quebec. In some variations, a little garlic, leeks, other
  vegetables or a ham bone are added for flavour. For a thicker consaistency
  (though this is not traditional) a cup or two of cooked peas can be pureed
  then returned to the soup."
  Wash and sort peas; soak in cold water ovvernight. Drain and place in a
  large pot; add water, parsley, salt pork, onion, celery, carrots, parsley,
  bay leaf, savory and 1 tsp salt. Bring to a boil; reduce heat and simmer
  until peas are very tender, about 2 hours, adding more water if needed.
  Remove salt pork; chop and return to soup. Discard bay leaf. Season to
  taste with salt and pepper. MAKES 8 SERVING: SOURCE: "The First Decade"
  chapter in _A Century of Canadian Home Cooking_
      Title: French Market Soup Mix
 Categories: Soups, Beans
   Servings: 14
      1 lb Each of the following
           Navy beans
           Great northern beans
           Green split peas
           Yellow split peas
           Black-eyed peas
           Lentils
           Baby limas
           Black beans
           Red beans
           Soy beans
           Barley pearls
  Combine the dried beans and peas.  Divide into 14 - 2 cup packages.
  From January 1992/ FAMILY
  Shared by Robert Rostrup
      Title: French Market Soup
 Categories: Soups, Beans
   Servings:  6
      2 c  French market soup mix
      2 qt Water
      1    Ham hock
  1 1/4 tb Salt
    1/4 tb Pepper
     16 oz Can whole tomatoes;
           -coarsely chopped,
           - don't drain
  1 1/2 c  Chopped onion
      1    Clove garlic; minced
      1    Chili pepper; chopped
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
  Sort and wasy 2 cups of the bean mix, place in a large heavy soup kettle.
  Cover with water that reaches 2 inches above the beans.  Soak overnight.
  The following morning: Drain the beans, and add 2 qt water, ham hock, salt
  and pepper.  Cover and bring to a boil.  Reduce the heat and simmer for 1
  1/2 hours until beans are tender. Add remaining ingredients. Simmer for
  another 30 minutes, stirring occasionally. Remove ham hock from the soup,
  take the meat from the bone, chop and return to the soup.
  Makes 2 1/2 quarts of soup
  From January 1992/ FAMILY
  Shared by Robert Rostrup
      Title: French Onion Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables, French, Coca-cola
   Servings:  4
    1/4 c  Butter
      4 c  Thinly Sliced Onions
     21 oz Beef Broth
    3/4 c  Coca-Cola
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Vinegar
    1/8 ts Pepper
-----------------------------GARNISH----------------------------------
           Parmesan Cheese, Grated
           Thick Slices French Bread
  In a heavy saucepan, melt the butter.  Add the onions and cook until they
  are golden, do not brown.  Add the undiluted beef broth, one soup can of
  water, Coca-Cola, salt, vinegar and pepper.  Cover and simmer for 20 to 25
  minutes.  In a broiler, toast one side of the French bread slices.  Turn
  and generously sprinkle with the grated Parmesan cheese.  Toast until
  browned.  Into deep bowls, ladle the soup and top with the toast, cheese
  side up.  From: "International Cooking with Coca-Cola", a give-away
  pamphlet from The Coca-Cola Company, 1981.
      Title: French Onion Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vidalia
   Servings:  8
      4 c  Thinly Sliced Sweet Vidalia
           - Onions
    1/2 c  Margarine
      2 tb Flour
      4    Beef Bouillon Cubes
      4 c  Water
      1 c  Dry White Wine
      3 tb Worcestershire Sauce
      8    Half Inch Thick Slices
           - French Bread
    1/4 c  Shredded Swiss Cheese
  Saute onions in margarine in large saucepan until they are very soft and
  golden, or about 30 minutes.  Stir in flour  and cook over low heat,
  stirring constantly, for 2 minutes.  Stir in beef bouillon, water, wine and
  Worcestershire sauce.  Heat to boiling, reduce heat, cover and simmer for
  30 minutes.
  Sprinkle bread slices with cheese and broil four inches from the heat for 3
  to 4 minutes or until the cheese is melted.
  Ladle soup into bowls and float a bread slice on each.  Serve immediately.
  Typed by Syd Bigger.
      Title: French Onion Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
    1/4 c  Butter
      6 x  Medium Cooking Onion Sliced
      1 ts Sugar
      1 tb All-Purpose Flour
      1 c  Dry White Wine
      4 c  Beef Broth
    1/4 ts Pepper
      6 x  1/2 In Day Old French Bread
      2 c  Grated Swiss Cheese
    1/2 c  Grated Parasean Cheese
           Paprika
  In large Dutch oven over medium heat, melt butter.  Add onions and sugar.
  Cover and cook, stirring occaisionally, 30 minutes or until onions are
  tender but not colored.  Uncover pan, increase heat slightly and continue
  to cook, stirring regularly until onions are rich caramel colour (10 to 15
  minutes) DO NOT LET ONIONS BURN. Stir in flour until well blended.
  Gradually add wine; cook, stirring constantly, until mixture boils and
  thickens.  Stir in beef broth and pepper; bring to boil. Reduce heat to
  low.  Cover and simmer 15 minutes. Ladle soup into 6, 1-1/2 cup oven proof
  bowls.  Top each with bread slice; sprinkle with swiss cheese and parmaean
  cheeses and paprika. Place bowls on jelly roll pan. Broil until cheese
  melts and bubbles.
      Title: French Onion Soup
 Categories: Soups, Low-cal
   Servings:  4
      1 tb Butter
      1 lg Onion, sliced thin
      2 ts Flour
    1/4 c  Dry white wine*
      5 c  Water
      4 ts Beef bouillon, or cubes
           Freshly ground pepper
      4 sl French bread
      1 c  Swiss cheese, shredded
  *This ingredient is in original recipe for which the food values are given.
  See note about how it was actually made at the end.
  Melt butter in large saucepan.  Add sliced onion, cover, cook over low heat
  about 5 min until onion is tender.  Remove lid, increase heat to high. Cook
  and stir until onions are golden.  Reduce heat, stir in flour and wine.
  Simmer 1 min.  Add water and bouillon cubes.  Bring to a boil, reduce heat
  and simmer 5 min.  Season to taste with salt and pepper.
  Place bread slices in 325F oven 5 min to dry.  Pour soup into 4 heated
  ovenproof bowls.  Place a slice of bread on top of each; allow bread to
  soak up soup, then cover with 1/4 cup cheese per bowl.  Bake at 325F 25-30
  min until cheese is lightly browned.
  4 servings - each 1 cup 1 protein choice, 1 1/2 Starch, 1 1/2 fat 20 g
  carbohydrate, 11 g protein, 11 g fat  (223 Calories)
  Choice Cooking, Canadian Diabetes Assoc, shared by Elizabeth Rodier
  MY WAY:  Start a loaf of French Bread in the bread machine so it is
  finished about 15 min. before you want to eat.  Slice onion or chop (not
  too fine) in a food copper.  Use water instead of wine and leave out the
  flour.  Add 1 tsp extra liquid bouillon (eg. Oxo). If you don't have fresh
  bread to serve on the side, dry croutons (bread cubes) are good on top of
  the soup.  Sprinkle with parmesan. WARNING: Guests may fill up on the
  bread/soup and not have room for dinner!
      Title: French Onion Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  4
      2 tb Unsalted butter
      2 lb Spanish onions, sliced
           -(about 8 cups)
      2    Cloves garlic, chopped
    1/4 c  All-purpose flour
  2 1/3 c  Canned beef broth
  2 1/2 c  Water
    1/2 ts Dried leaf thyme, crumbled
    1/2 ts Salt
      4 sl French bread, diagonally cut
      1 ts Dijon-style mustard
    1/4 c  Shredded Swiss cheese (1
           -ounce)
  Heat the butter in a Dutch oven over medium-high heat.  Add the onion and
  garlic; cook, stirring occasionally, for 15 minutes or until the onions are
  golden.  Remove 3/4 cup of the onions and reserve for Onion and Ham Tart
  (separate recipe).
  Increase the heat to high and cook the onions remaining in the Dutch oven,
  stirring, for 5 to 8 minutes or until golden brown.  In a small bowl, stir
  together the flour and 2 tablespoons of the broth until smooth. Blend in
  the remaining broth.  Add the broth-flour mixture, water, thyme and salt to
  the onions in the Dutch oven.  Bring to a boil, stirring. Lower the heat
  and simmer for 10 minutes.  Reserve and refrigerate 1 cup of the soup for
  the Potatoes Boulangere (separate recipe).
  Meanwhile,spread the mustard on the bread.  Place on a foil-lined baking
  sheet.  Sprinkle the cheese over the bread.  Bake the croutons in a
  preheated 350 F oven for 15 minutes or until they are golden and crisped.
  To serve, ladle 1 1/4 cups of soup into each of 4 bowls.  Float a crouton
  on the top of each bowl.
  Makes 4 servings (1 1/4 cups each).
  Per Serving: 87 Calories, 3 g Protein, 3 g Fat, 23 g Carbohydrates, 442 ng
  Sodium, 7 mg Cholesterol.
  Exchanges: 1/4 starch/bread, 2 vegetable, 1/2 fat.
  [Family Circle; 2/1/92]
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Fresh Corn Chowder
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  6
      6    Ears of fresh corn
      2 tb Butter
      1 sm Onion
      1 tb Flour
      3 c  Rich milk
  Info:  from The Old Farmer's Almanac Colonial Cookbook
  Salt and pepper
  Score each row of kernels with a sharp knife, and scrape them and the milk
  from the cobs.  Cook the onion in the butter until soft but not brown. Add
  the flour and the corn, and stir until the mixture starts to thicken.
  Transfer the mixture to a double boiler and gradually add the milk,
  stirring until cooked, then season to taste with salt and pepper. Serve
  hot, garnished with lots of finely chopped parsley and an additional pat of
  butter.
  Posted by Perry Lowell. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Fresh Fruit Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      3 tb Sugar
      3 tb Cornstarch
    1/8 ts Salt
      1 c  Water
  1 1/4 c  Rose wine
  1 1/2 c  Cranberry juice
      3 c  Fresh fruit
  Mix sugar, cornstarch and salt in 3-quart saucepan; stir in water and wine.
  Heat to boiling, stirring constantly. Boil and stir 1 minute. Remove from
  heat. Stir in cranberry juice. Cover loosely and refrigerate until
  chilled.
  Stir in fruit. Serve with sour cream or whipped cream if desired.
      Title: Fresh Mushroom Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetarian
   Servings:  2
      2 tb Butter
    1/2 lb Fresh mushrooms, sliced
    1/2 c  Finely chopped onion
    1/2 ts Vegetable seasoning
      1 tb Arrowroot powder
      2 c  Skim milk
      1    Cube bouillon
  In sauce pan, melt butter over medium heat.  Add mushrooms.  onion, and
  vegetable seasoning.  Cook about 5 minutes.  Combine arrowroot in about 1/4
  of the milk; add to mushroom mixture.  Add bouillon cube and remaining
  milk. Simmer, stirring constantly, until soup is hot and thickens slightly.
      Title: Fresh Mushroom Bisque
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      3 tb Butter
      1 lb Mushrooms - sliced
      3 tb All-purpose flour
      4 c  Half and Half
      1    Egg yolk - beaten to blend
      2 tb Lemon juice
           Salt and pepper
  Melt butter in heavy large saucepan over medium heat.  Add mushrooms and
  saute until soft, about 4 minutes.  Add flour and stir for 2 minutes.
  Slowly mix in Half and Half.  Simmer until thickened, stirring frequently,
  about 4 minutes.  Combine yolk and lemon juice in small bowl. Gradually
  whisk in half of soup.  Return to saucepan and stir until heated through;
  do not boil.  Season generously with salt and pepper.
  Serves 4.
  Recipe from "Too Busy To Cook", Bon Appetit, December, 1989.
  Posted by Michelle Bass. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Fresh Tomato Soup with Sweet Basil
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      1 md Onion
      2 tb Unsalted butter
     12    Red, ripe tomatoes,
           -preferably plum
      1 sm Clove garlic
           Salt and freshly ground
           -pepper
      1 c  Heavy cream
      1 bn Fresh sweet basil
    1/4 c  Sour cream, if serving cold
  Slice onion.  Melt butter in a large heavy pot and saute slices until they
  just begin to brown.  Quarter tomatoes and add them to the pot.
  Crush entire clove of garlic by giving it a good whack with the flat of a
  cleaver, loosening cloves and slightly cracking skins.  Add garlic skins
  and all to pot.  Add enough water to come to 1 inch above level of
  tomatoes.  Season with salt and pepper.  Add cream.  Bring soup to a boil,
  then reduce to a simmer and cook partially covered 20-25 minutes.  In a
  blender or food processor, puree soup, then strain,pushing through as much
  pulp as possible to obtain a smooth thick cream.
  To serve hot ladle soup into six warm bowls and garnish with fine julienned
  basil leaves.
  To serve cold allow to cool to room temperature, then refrigerate at least
  2 hours, then add seasoning. It will require more salt and pepper then when
  serves hot.  Garnish with finely julienned basil leaves. Top with a dollop
  of sour cream.
  Yield: 6 servings
      Title: Fresh Tomato Chili Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  4
      8    Tomatoes - medium
      1    Garlic clove - minced
    1/2 ts Hot chili powder or cayenne
      1 c  Chicken broth
           Green onions - chopped
           Cilantro - chopped
           Cumin seed - crushed
           Lime - fresh, wedges
           Tortilla chips
  Wash tomatoes and broil until skins are brown and shrivelled and interior
  is soft.  Skin and puree in food processor with garlic, chili powder and
  broth.
  Garnish with green onion, cilantro, cumin and lime.  Serve hot or at room
  temperature with tortilla chips.
  Serves 4.
  From Peppers Hot and Chili by Georgeanne Brennan and Charlotte Glenn
  Calgary Sun, Monday, July 30, 1990 - Cinda Chavich
  Posted by Fred Towner (July 31, 1990)
      Title: Fresh Tomato-Basil Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
           Ingredients:
      3 tb Unsalted butter
      1 tb Oil
      1    Onion, sliced or chopped
      1 md Leek, cleaned and finely
           -chopped
      1 md Carrot, finely chopped
      1 md Stalk celery, finely chopped
           Bouquet garni (see note)
      2 tb Chopped fresh basil or 2
           -teaspoons dried leaf
      4    Ripe medium tomatoes,
           -coarsely chopped
      3 tb Tomato paste
      2 tb All-purpose flour
  2 1/2 c  Chicken stock
    1/2 c  Half and half or heavy cream
           Salt and finely ground
           -pepper to taste
  Directions: 1. Heat butter and oil in a 2-quart saucepan. Add onion, leek,
  carrot, celery, bouquet garni, and basil and saute 5 minutes over low heat,
  stirring occasionally. 2. Add tomatoes and tomato paste and cook about 5
  minutes. Sprinkle with flour and mix well. Add chicken stock, cover, and
  simmer about 20 minutes. Remove bouquet garni. 3. Pour into food processor
  fitted with steel blade or into blender and puree. Pass through a fine
  strainer (use a rubber spatula to help force liquid through). 4. Return to
  saucepan and add half and half or cream. Bring to boil. Reduce heat and
  simmer 2 to 3 minutes. Taste for seasoning with salt and pepper. Serve hot
  with fresh basil leaves or chopped parsley for garnish. Variation: Omit
  basil and add 1/4 to 1/2 tsp. curry powder for a completely different
  taste. May be refrigerated for up to 1 day and served chilled. Advance
  Preparation: May be prepared up to 2 days ahead through step 3 and kept in
  refrigerator. Note: To make a bouquet garni, wrap a parsley stem, bay leaf,
  and a sprig of fresh thyme in cheesecloth and tie with string.
      Title: Fricot a la "Belette" ("Weasel" Fricot/soup)
 Categories: Acadian, Soups, Vegetables, Vegetarian
   Servings:  1
      1    Onion; chopped
      3 tb Butter
      2 tb Salted herbs;*
      4 c  -Water
      3 c  Potatoes; diced
           -salt and pepper
      1 tb Flour
--------------------DUMPLINGS:* THIS IS ONE OF-------------------------
           -several possible dumpling
           -recipes given
      1 c  Flour
    1/2 ts -Salt
    1/2 c  -Cold water
  *posted separately
  "If there was one dish that could be called typically Acadian, it would
  certainly be Fricot, a soup containing potatoes and meat. The dish has been
  a long time favorite in Acadian households, so much  that the word fricot
  was once synonymous with a good meal and a common call for dinner was
  often, "Vous etes invites au fricot!"... This potato fricot was prepared
  when neither meat nor fish were available, and given the tongue-in-cheek
  name, "Weasel Fricot" (Fricot a la Belette). If you ask Acadians about the
  origin of the name, they will smile and say, "Parce que b'lette a passe
  tout drouete (Because the weasel went right on by.) On Prince Edward it is
  called Fricot a la bezette (Nincompoop Fricot) where bezette roughly
  translates as "nincompoop". It is known as butter fricot, salted her fricot
  and potato fricot, and is often served with a large slice of buttered bread
  and molasses."
  Handkerchief Dumplings (Pates en Mouchior de Poche) Mix flour with salt.
  Gradually add cold water to the dough as one would when making biscuits.
  Roll the dough fairly thin, cut into 1 1/2 inch squares and place the
  squares in the fricot. Cover and simmer 7 minutes.
  Saute the onion and salted herbs in butter for 1-2 minutes or until the
  onion is golden brown. Add the water, potatoes, salt and pepper, and simmer
  for 20 minutes. To thicken the broth, add dumpling or flour mixed with
  water.
  SOURCE: _A Taste of Acadie_ by Marie Cormier-Boudreau posted by Anne
  MacLellan
      Title: Fruit Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  2
    2/3 c  Apricot Nectar
      1 ts Cornstarch
      1 tb Brandy
      1 tb Honey
    1/8 ts Ground Allspice
      1 c  Peeled & Sliced Fruits *
  *  Peeled and sliced fruits can be papayas, peaches or pineapples; cut up
  apricots, nectarines, or plums; or halved and pitted dark sweet cherries.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  In a nonmetal bowl stir together apricot nectar and cornstarch. Stir in
  brandy, honey, and allspice.  Micro-cook, uncovered, on 100% power for 2 to
  3 minutes or till the mixture is thickened and bubbly, stiring every 30
  seconds.  Stir in fruit.  Micro-cook, uncovered, on 100% power for 45
  seconds to 1 minute or till heated through.  Chill thoroughly, if desired.
  Serve hot or cold.
      Title: Fruit Soup
 Categories: Soups, 1941
   Servings:  6
      2 c  Fruit
      3 c  Water
           Corn-starch
           Sugar
  Combine raspberries, blackberries, peaches, or cherries with the water.
  Cover.  Simmer until fruit is soft.  Rub through sieve. Sweeten puree to
  taste.  Add 1/2 tablespoon corn-starch to each cup of puree. Mix until
  smooth.  Cook over hot water, stirring constantly, until well flavored.
  Chill.  If desired, a few drops of lemon juice may be added to develop the
  flavor of the fruit. 6 servings.
  The Household Searchlight
      Title: Garbanzo Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  4
      3 tb Butter
    1/4 c  Minced onion
      3 c  Water
      1 cn (15 oz) garbanzo or
           -chickpeas, drained
      2    Beef bouillon cubes
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Garlic salt
    1/4 ts Dried mint leaves
    1/8 ts Black pepper
    1/4 c  Macaroni, uncooked
           Grated parmesan cheese
           Minced parsley for garnish
  In a 2-quart saucepan, melt butter over medium heat. Saute onion until
  golden. Add water, garbanzos or chickpeas, bouillon cubes, salt, garlic
  salt, mint leaves and pepper. Bring to a boil. Stir in macaroni. Reduce
  heat. Cover and simmer 20 minutes. Serve topped with Parmesan cheese and
  garnished with minced parsley.
  SOURCE: Sopie Kay's Pasta Cookery H-P Books, Tucson, Arizona 85703
  Reprinted in The Cookbook Digest Issue A-0008 (1980)
  Posted in FIDO Cooking by Bob Emert/Frank Skelly 09/03/93
      Title: Garlic Gazpacho
 Categories: Soups, Garlic
   Servings:  4
      2    Cloves garlic
      6 lg Tomatoes
      1 lg Onion
      1    Green pepper
      2 sm Cucumber
    1/2 c  Olive oil
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
      3 c  Tomato juice
           (salt)
           Cayenne pepper
  Peel the tomatoes and blend with the garlic in a blender.  Add 1/4 of the
  green pepper, 1/4 of the onion, and 1/2 of the cucumber.  Chill.  Chop
  remaining vegetables and put in separate serving dishes in the
  refrigerator.  Put tomato juice in refrigerator.  Just before serving,
  blend olive oil, lemon juice, salt, cayenne and tomato juice.  Add to
  blender mixture.  Ladle into soup dishes.  Pass chopped vegetables and a
  dish of croutons as garnish.
      Title: Garlic Soup
 Categories: Soups, Garlic
   Servings:  6
     20    Garlic cloves
      2 c  Sliced onions
      1 c  Sliced gr. peppers
  1 1/2 tb Olive oil
      3 c  Tomatoes
      2 c  Broth
      3    To 4 slices dark bread
           -(cubed)
  Blanch the garlic cloves in boiling water for 30 seconds, rinse under cool
  water, drain, peel and slice them thinly. In a large kettle saute onions &
  peppers until soft and golden...about 8-10 min.  Add garlic and sliced
  tomatoes, reduce heat, cover and simmer for 30 min. Pour in the broth &
  heat the soup just to aboil.  Add the bread cubes to thicken the soup to
  desired consistency. Serve with grated Parmesan cheese, or thick pesto.
      Title: Garlic Soup
 Categories: Soups, Garlic
   Servings:  6
      1 tb Butter or margarine
      1 tb Olive oil
      1    Head elephant garlic, cloves
           -peeled and crushed
      2 md Onions, peeled and chopped
     10    Whole cardomom pods
    1/2 ts Dried basil
    1/8 ts Dried celery seeds
      1 qt Chicken broth (not boullion)
      4    Eggs, separated
      1 tb Olive oil
      3 tb Unsweetened lime juice
  chopped fresh cilantro or parsley, for garnish
  Melt butter or margarine in a skillet.  When it stops foaming, add olive
  oil and mix together.  Add the garlic and onion and saute until soft but
  not browned.  Add herbs. Meanwhile, heat the chicken broth. Toss in
  cardomom pods. Add the sauteed garlic and onion. Use a little bit of broth
  to deglaze the skillet and add that to the broth. Simmer, covered, for half
  an hour.  Remove onions and garlic, press through a strainer, and return to
  broth.  Remove cardamom pods and discard. Whisk a tablespoon of olive oil
  into the egg yolks, then a bit of the hot broth, and whisk mixture into the
  soup.  Add the lime juice. Whisk a little bit of water into the egg whites.
  Just before serving, swirl the broth and add the whites quickly in a thin
  stream.  Garnish with chopped cilantro or parsley.
      Title: Garlic Soup with Chicken
 Categories: Soups, Poultry
   Servings:  8
      1    Whole chicken, disjointed
      2    Carrots, minced
      2    Stalks celery, minced
      1 lg Whole onion
      1    Whole head garlic, broken
           Into uppeeled cloves
           Chopped fresh parsley
           Salt and pepper to taste
     10    Cloves garlic, peeled
      4 tb Butter
      2 tb Flour
  Make fresh chicken broth by simmering chicken, carrots, celery, onion,
  garlic, parsley, salt and pepper in enough water to cover.  When chicken is
  thoroughly cooked, remove it and skim fat from broth.  Simmer broth,
  reducing it until it is very rich.  Remove unpeeled garlic cloves; squeeze
  cooked garlic from cloves and mash to make puree.  Discard skins.  In
  frying pan, saute the 10 peeled cloves in butter.  When lightly browned,
  add flour and small amount of broth and mix with a wire whisk until
  velvety.  Pour this mixture into the remaining broth, ad pureed gralic, and
  stir.  Tear chicken into bite-sized pieces and add to the soup. Sprinkle
  with fresh parsley and serve.
      Title: Garlic Soup (Florida Cooking)
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  1
  1 1/4 c  Chicken broth
      2 ts Olive oil
      1 sm Clove garlic or 1/2 large,-
           -peeled and crushed
      1 sl Cuban or French bread
      1 ea Egg
           Salt and freshly ground-
           -pepper to taste
      1 ts Minced parsley
      2 ts Grated hard queso blanco-
           -(see Note) or Parmesan-
           -cheese
  Bring the chicken broth to a boil.  In a small skillet, heat the oil.  Add
  the garlic and saute until golden and aromatic.  Place the bread in a large
  soup bowl, pour the oil and garlic over it, add the boiling chicken broth,
  and immediately break the egg into the soup.  It will cook in 2 to 3
  minutes.  Add salt and pepper, and sprinkle with the parsley and cheese.
  NOTE:  There are dozens of quesos blancos, or white cheeses, which is
  exactly how the name translates.  Some are soft, some fresh, but many aged.
  Queso blanco generally is mild flavored, though some of the aged ones can
  be quite tangy.  They are found in markets in Florida and in most cities
  with colonies of residents of Caribbean, Cuban, or Mexican ancestry. Try
  the cheeses, and choose the one that suits your taste.
  FROM:  The Florida Cookbook, by Jeanne Voltz and Caroline Stuart. Typed in
  by:  Ronnie Wright
      Title: Garlic Soup Royale
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
     40    Garlic cloves
      2 c  Chopped onions
      1 c  Chopped peppers
    1/2 c  Chopped carrots
    1/2 c  Chopped celery
      1 c  Bread crumbs
     28 oz Can Italian plum tomatoes,
           -chopped
      5 c  Rich chicken stock
    1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
    1/2 ts Curry
    1/2 ts Black pepper
      1 ts Salt
      1 tb Oregano
      1 tb Thyme
    1/2    Olive oil
      1 c  Heavy cream
      1 c  Flour
      2 c  Skim milk
  In the olive oil, saute onions, garlic, celery and carrots until soft. Stir
  in flour and mix thoroughly. Cook 5 minutes while stirring. Do let not
  burn. Add tomatoes, breadcrumbs and stock. Bring to boil. Simmer 15
  minutes. Let cool. slightly. Add cream and or milk while puree'ing through
  blender. Garnish with finely chopped scallions, and serve very hot.
      Title: Garlic Soup
 Categories: Soups, Entertain
   Servings:  4
      1 tb Unsalted butter
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 lb Onions; coarsely chopped
     28    Garlic cloves; medium, peel
           -ed (about 2 heads)
      3 c  Chicken stock; or canned un
           -salted broth (or more)
      3 oz French bread; torn into pie
           -ces
      1    Bouquet garni; 6 sprigs par
           -sley, 3 sprigs thyme,
           1/2 bay leaf
      1 c  Whipping cream; or half & h
           -alf
           Salt and fresh ground pepper
    Melt butter with oil in heavy deep skillet over low heat.  Add onions and
  garlic and cook until onions are tender and golden brown, stirring
  frequently, about 30 minutes.
     Add 3 cups chicken stock, bread and bouquet garni to skillet and bring
  to boil. Reduce heat and simmer 15 minutes.
     Remove bouquet garni. Puree mixture in batches in blender. Transfer
  puree to heavy large saucepan.  Mix in cream. (Can be prepared one day
  ahead. Cover and refrigerate at this point).
     Stir over low heat until heated through.  Thin soup with additional
  stock if desired. Season with salt and pepper and serve. Serves 4. Susan
  Spicer is the Chef/Owner of Bayona, a restaurant in the French Quarter in
  New Orleans; she is the former head chef at The Bistro, which is a
  restaurant in the Maison de Ville Hotel in New Orleans. Source: Susan
  Spicer
      Title: Gazpacho De Los Angeles
 Categories: Soups, California
   Servings:  6
     46 oz Canned tomato juice
      1    Green bell pepper; minced
      1 sm Onion; minced
      1    Cucumber; peeled & minced
      2    Canned green chiles; minced
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1 ts Seasoning blend
    1/2 ts Minced garlic
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 tb Chopped chives
      2 dr Hot pepper sauce
           MSG (optional)
           Salt, white pepper
           Lemon wedges
  Combine tomato juice, green pepper, onion, cucumber, chiles,
  Worcestershire, seasoning blend, garlic, olive oil, chives and hot pepper
  sauce. Season to taste with MSG, salt and white pepper. Chill thoroughly.
  Serve with lemon wedges.
  Note: For smooth gazpacho served with vegetable garnishes, blend tomato
  mixture in blender container until smooth. Serve with additional diced
  cucumber, green pepper and croutons on side.
  Makes 6 to 8 servings
  Created by: Velvet Turtle, Los Angeles
  (C) 1992 The Los Angeles Times
      Title: Gazpacho
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      3    Garlic cloves
    1/4 ts Crushed black pepper
    1/2 ts Salt
      3    Tablespoon oil
      4 c  Of cold water
      2 tb Vinegar
      4    Crushed tomatoes
      2 md Onions in rings and then in
           -4th
      2    Cucumbers sliced without
           -peeling
      2    Green peppers
  Grind the garlic with the pepper and salt.  Let stand for 15 minutes  Add
  oil, water and vinegar.  Let stand for 30 minutes Now you may strain and
  take out the garlic or leave it there for flavor, remember if you leave it
  there it will ge more stronger flavor.. add the rest of the ingredients and
  let on the cooler for 5 hours.  This was usually done in the morning for
  the late dinners!  add some pieces of french bread in crutons style before
  serving
      Title: Gazpacho
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
      4 lg Tomatoes
      1 sm Cucumber, chopped
      1 md Green pepper, chopped
      1    Stalk celery, chopped
      1 sm Onion, finely chopped
      1    Clove garlic, minced
 13 3/4 oz Chicken broth
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Cooking oil
      1 ts Sugar
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 ds Tabasco hot pepper sauce
           Croutons
  Plunge tomatoes into boiling water for 30 seconds to loosen skins;then
  immerse in cold water.Slip skins off. Coarsely chop tomatoes (you should
  have about 2 1/2 cups).
  In large bowl combine chopped tomatoes, cucumber, green pepper, celery,
  onion, and garlic. Stir in chicken broth, lemon juice, oil, sugar, salt,
  pepper, and hot pepper sauce. Cover; chill thoroughly. Garnish each serving
  with croutons. Serves 8 to 10.
  Note: For a smoother soup, combine all ingredients except croutons as
  directed above. Place half the mixture at a time in blender container (or
  one-third of the mixture at a time in a food processor) Cover and blend
  till smooth. Chill and serve as above.
  Recipe from: Better Homes and Gardens, Soups & Stews Cookbook Copyright
  1978 by Meredith Corporation, Des Moines, Iowa
      Title: Gazpacho
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
      2 cn Tomatoes with liquid, minced
           -(14 1/2 oz. ea.)
      2 c  Vegetable juice
      2 tb Red wine vinegar
      1    Clove Garlic, minced
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
     10 dr Hot sauce
      6 oz Seasoned croutons
      1 md Cucumber, peeled and diced
      1 md Green pepper, diced
      1 bn Green onions with tops,
           -sliced
  In a large bowl, combine first seven ingredients. Cover and refrigerate
  overnight. Stir well; ladle into soup bowls and garnish as desired with
  croutons, cucumbers, peppers, and green onions. Yield: 6-8 servings.
  SOURCE:*Sharon Balzer, Phoeniz, AZ, Country Magazine June/July 93 POSTED
  BY: Jim Bodle 8/93
      Title: Gazpacho
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  8
      1    Clove garlic, minced
    1/4    To 1/2 cup cilantro, minced
  1 1/2 c  Fresh tomatoes, peeled and
           -chopped
      2 cn Stewed tomatoes (14 1/2
           -ounces each)
    3/4 c  Green pepper, seeded and
           -finely chopped
    3/4 c  Celery, finely chopped
    3/4 c  Cucumber, peled, finely
           -chopped
    1/4 c  Onion, finely chopped
      1    Jalapeno pepper, seeded
      2 c  Tomato juice
      2 tb Red-wine vinegar
      2 tb Olive oil
    1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
      4    Drops Tabasco sauce
    1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
           Juice of 1 lime
      1 c  Dry white wine
      3 tb Fresh chives, chopped
  Set aside 1/4 cup each green pepper, celery and cucumber and 1 cup tomato
  juice.  Place the remaining ingredients except chives in a food processor
  fitted with a steel blade.  Process until the vegetables are pureed.
  Transfer to a large bowl and stir in all the reserved vegetables and the
  tomato juice.  Sprinkle with the chives.  Chill before serving.
  Makes 8 servings.
  Calories: 106   Cholesterol: 0 mg       Total Fat: 3.7 g Sodium: 258 mg
  Fiber: 3.2 g
  [ NEW CHOICES Magazine; July 1990 ]
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Gazpacho
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      1    Clove Garlic, Peeled
      1    Slim Cucumber, Peeled/Cut
      4    Ripe Tomatoes Cut In Eighths
    1/2    Green Pepper, Seeded/Sliced
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2 sm Onion, Peeled/Sliced
      2 tb Olive Oil
      3 tb Wine Vinegar
    1/2 c  Ice Water
  Put all ingredients into container of electric blender in order listed.
  Cover and blend at high speed 5-10 seconds or until ingredients are finely
  chopped.  Chill thoroughly and serve.  May be served with side dishes of
  chopped cucumber, green onion, green pepper, tomatoes, croutons.
      Title: Georgia Crab Soup
 Categories: Soups, Seafood, Entertain
   Servings:  8
      6 tb Butter or margarine, divided
  2 1/2 c  Sliced fresh mushrooms
           -(about 8 ounces)
      3 tb All-purpose flour
      3 c  Homemade chicken stock or
           -canned chicken
           Broth, preferably low sodium
  1 1/2 c  Heavy cream
     12 oz Cooked crabmeat, fresh,
           -canned, or frozen,
           Thawed if frozen (about 1
           -1/2 cups)
    3/4 c  Freshly grated Parmesan
           -cheese
    1/4 c  Good-quality dry sherry,
           -Optional
           Salt and pepper to taste
           Chopped fresh parsley
  Melt 3 tablespoons of the butter in a 10-inch skillet over medium heat; add
  the mushrooms and saute for about 5 minutes, stirring occasionally, until
  softened.  Remove from the heat and set aside.  Melt the remaining 3
  tablespoons of butter in a heavy 3-quart saucepan over medium heat; stir in
  the flour and blend until smooth.  Pour in the chicken stock and cream,
  stirring constantly; cook and stir for 8 to 10 minutes until the mixture
  thickens and just begins to boil.  Add the crabmeat and reserved cooked
  mushrooms; cook and stir for 2 to 3 minutes longer until heated through.
  Remove from the heat; stir in grated Parmesan, sherry, if using, salt and
  pepper.  Serve garnished with chopped parsley.
  Makes 8 servings.
  Nutrition information per serving: 351 Calories; 12 g Protein; 31 g Fat; 11
  g Carbohydrates;  629 mg Sodium;  147 mg Cholesterol
  [REDBOOK; Nov 1990]
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: German Cheese Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
  2 3/4 c  Skim milk
  1 3/4 c  Whole-wheat bread crumbs
           -(fresh)
      2 ts Dijon mustard
      1 c  Muenster cheese, shredded
           Nutmeg (garnish)
           Paprika (garnish)
           Minced parsley (garnish)
  Servings:  4
  Place 1 1/2 cups of the milk in a blender with fresh bread crumbs and
  mustard and process on low speed until smooth.  Place this mix in saucepan
  with remaining milk and the cheese.  Cook over low heat, stirring
  constantly, until the cheese melts and the soup is heated through. Do not
  boil.  Pour into bowls and sprinkle with nutmeg, paprika and parsley.
  Posted by Sheila Exner. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: German Lentil Soup with Frankfurters
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
      2 md Onions, Peeled & Chopped
           Clove Garlic, Crushed
      2 md Carrots, Scraped, Chopped
      2 x  Stalks Celery, Clean, Chop
      2 tb Salad Oil
      8 c  Water
      2 c  Lentils, Washed & Drained
           Bay Leaf
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 lb Frankfurters, Sliced Thick
      2 tb Cider Vinegar
  Saute onions, garlic, carrots, and celery in heated oil in a large kettle
  for 5 minutes. Add water, lentils, bay leaf, salt, and pepper. Bring to a
  boil. Lower heat and cook slowly, covered, about 30 minutes, until lentils
  are just tender. Add frankfurters and cook another 10 minutes. Remove from
  heat and stir in vinegar. Remove and discard bay leaf.
      Title: German Soup Balls
 Categories: Penn-dutch, Soups
   Servings:  1
      3 lb Soup Meat
      2 qt Water
      4    Egg
      1 c  Flour
      2 tb Butter
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Milk
  Add the water to the soup meat, season to taste and cook slowly for several
  hours. A half hour before serving time, make soup balls as follows: combine
  the salt and flour and work in the butter. Beat the eggs and add to flour.
  Stir in the milk, using only enough to make batter thin enough to drop by
  spoon. Drop by spoonfuls into the boiling hot broth and cook for 10
  minutes. Serve in hot soup at once. Source: Pennsylvania Dutch Cook Book -
  Fine Old Recipes, Culinary Arts Press, 1936.
      Title: German Vegetable Soup
 Categories: Penn-dutch, Soups
   Servings:  1
      1    Soup Bone
      1 pt Tomatoes
      1 pt Lima Beans
      1 pt Corn, Grated
      2 c  Cabbage, Chopped
      1    Turnip, Diced
      1    Carrot, Diced
      1    Onion, Sliced
      1 ts Flour
    1/2 c  Milk
           Salt & Pepper
           Cold Water
  Wash soup bone thoroughly and cover with cold water and allow it to boil
  for several hours. Skim off the fat and add the vegetables. Season to
  taste. Mix the flour with the milk and stir into soup. Cook for 1 hour and
  serve hot. Source: Pennsylvania Dutch Cook Book - Fine Old Recipes,
  Culinary Arts Press, 1936.
      Title: Ginger Squash Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables, Microwave
   Servings:  6
      2 tb Butter
      1    Onion, chopped
      1    Garlic Clove, chopped
  1 1/2 ts Gingerroot, fresh, grated
      2 tb All Purpose Flour
  1 1/2 c  Chicken Stock
      2 c  Cooked Squash
    1/2 c  Orange Juice
      2 ts Orange Rind, grated
           Salt
           Black Pepper, freshly ground
           Nutmeg, fresh, grated
           Parsley, fresh, chopped
  * You can use butternut, acorn or pumpkin squash.  Serve cupfuls of this
  elegant, colorful soup as a starter to a fall menu.  For a creamy version,
  add light cream or buttermilk when reheating the soup before serving.
  In a 2 quart casserole, combine butter, onions, garlic and gingerroot.
  Microwave at High for 4 to 5 minutes or until onion is very tender,
  stirring once.
  Blend in flour; stir in chicken stock and squash.  Microwave at High for 7
  to 9 minutes until boiling and thickened, stirring once.  Puree in a food
  processor or blender until smooth.  Add orange juice and rind; season with
  salt, pepper and nutmeg.  Thin with additional stock, or add cream or
  buttermilk.  Microwave at High for about 2 minutes or until very hot. Ladle
  into heated soup bowls and sprinkle with chopped parsley.
  By Johanna Burkhard, From The Gazette, 91/11/13.
  Posted by James Lor. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Ginger-Carrot Bisque
 Categories: Soups
   Servings: 10
    1/4 c  Plus 2 tb, unsalted butter
      2 lb Carrots, peeled, thinly
           -sliced
      2 lg Onions, chopped
      1 tb Minced peeled fresh ginger
      2 ts Grated orange peel
    1/2 ts Ground coriander
      5 c  Chicken stock or canned
           -broth
      1 c  Half and half (light cream)
    1/2 c  Minced fresh parsley
  Melt butter in heavy large saucepan over medium heat. Add carrots and
  onions. Cover saucepan and cook until vegetables begin to soften, stirring
  occasionally, about 15 minutes. Mix in ginger, orange peel and coriander.
  Add 2 cups stock. Reduce heat to medium-low. Cover pan and simmer soup
  until carrots are very tender, about 30 minutes. Puree soup in batches in
  processor or blender. Add remaining 3 cups stock and half and half to soup.
  Season with salt and pepper. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and
  refrigerate.) Cook over medium heat until warm. Ladle into bowls. Sprinkle
  with parsley and serve. Source: Bon Appetit, Nov/91 Posted by Linda Davis
      Title: Golden Carrot Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  4
    1/4 c  Butter
      1    Sliced medium onion
      1 sm Minced clove garlic
      5 c  Water
  2 1/2 c  Sliced carrots
    1/4 c  Long grain rice
      2 tb Chicken bouillon mix
  Salt and chopped parsley
  Melt butter in medium saucepan.  Saute onion and garlic until tender. Add
  water, carrots, rice and bouillon mix.  Bring to boil; cover and simmer for
  20 to 25 minutes.  Spoon vegetable mixture, parts at a time, into blender.
  Cover and blend until smooth.  Add salt and parsley to taste.
  Makes 4 servings.
  Posted by Sharon Stevens. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Golden Squash and Carrot Bisque
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  6
      3    Med. yellow summer squash,
           -sliced (3 cups)
      2    Med. carrots, sliced (1 cup)
      1    Med. onion, chopped (1/2
           -cup)
      1 cn (13 3/4-ounce) chicken broth
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 cn (13-ounce) (1 2/3 cups)
           -evaporated milk
           Snipped parsley
  In 2-quart saucepan combine sliced summer squash, carrots, onion, chicken
  broth, and salt. Bring to boiling. Reduce heat; cover and simmer for 15 to
  20 minutes or till carrots are just tender. Turn half the mixture into
  blender container or food processor, cover and blend till smooth. Pour into
  bowl; repeat with remaining mixture. Stir in evaporated milk. Cover and
  chill. Sprinkle with snipped parsley.
  Makes 6 servings.
  Microwave cooking directions: Use ingredients as listed above. In 2- quart
  nonmetal casserole combine squash, carrots, and onion; sprinkle with salt.
  Cook, covered with waxed paper, in countertop microwave oven on high power
  about 15 minutes or till vegetables are tender, stirring once.
  In blender container or food processor combine half the cooked vegetables
  and half the chicken broth; cover and blend till smooth. Turn into a bowl.
  Repeat with remaining vegetables and broth. Stir in the evaporated milk.
  Cover and chill. Sprinkle with parsley.
  Recipe from: Better Homes and Gardens, Soups & Stews Cookbook copyright
  1978 by Meredith Corporation, Des Moines, Iowa
      Title: Golden Tomato Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  8
      1 tb + 1 ts reduced-calorie
           -margarine
      1 c  Chopped onion
      2    Cloves garlic, coarsely
           -chopped
    1/2 c  Chopped carrots
    1/4 c  Chopped celery
      8 md Tomatoes, blanched, peeled,
           -seeded,
           And chopped
      6 c  Chicken broth
      1 oz Uncooked rice
      2 tb Tomato paste
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
           Black pepper to taste (1/4
           -to 1/2 teaspoon)
    1/2 ts Dried thyme
      5    Drops liquid red pepper
           -sauce
  1.  Melt the margarine over medium-high heat in a large Dutch oven. Add the
  onion and garlic; saute until tender, 1 to 2 minutes.  Add the carrots and
  celery; saute, stirring frequently, until tender, about 7 to 9 minutes.
  Stir in the remaining ingredients and cook over low heat for 30 minutes,
  stirring frequently.
  2.  Remove soup from heat and let cool for about 10 minutes.  In a food
  processor or blender, process the soup in small batches until smooth.
  Return soup to the Dutch oven; simmer for 3 to 5 minutes until heated
  through.
  Makes 8 servings.
  Per Serving: 86 Calories;  4 g Protein; 3 g Fat; 847 mg Sodium 14 g
  Carbohydrates; 0 mg Cholesterol
  [WEIGHT WATCHERS MAGAZINE; Jan 1990]
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Goulash Soup
 Categories: Soups, Beef, Vegetables
   Servings:  6
      1    Text Only
  Saute 1/2 pound chopped onions with 1/4 pound finely diced bacon, until the
  onions are puffed and golden.  Add 1 teaspoon paprika, 1/2 teaspoon caraway
  seeds, a pinch of marjoram and 1 crushed garlic clove, and cook these for a
  minute, stirring.  Paprika becomes bitter if it is cooked too long. Add 6
  cups beef stock, 1 pound finely cubed soup meat, 1 teaspoon salt, and 3
  large tomatoes, peeled, seeded and diced.  Simmer the soup for 20 minutes.
  Add 3/4 pound peeled and diced potatoes and add more beef stock, if
  necessary.  Continue to cook the soup until the meat and potatoes are soft.
  Stir 1/4 cup flour into 3/4 cup water and stir the mixture slowly into the
  soup.  Continue to cook the soup until it is thickened. Cut three peeled
  cooked beef frankfurters into 1/4-inch slices and add them to the soup with
  a squeeze of lemon juice.
  Posted by Karin Brewer. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Goulash Soup
 Categories: Soups, Beef
   Servings:  4
      5 oz Lean beef, cut into small
           -pieces
      2    Frankfurters, thinly sliced
     14 oz Potatoes, peeled and diced
    1/2 ts Paprika
      8 oz Tomatoes, peeled, seeded and
           -chopped
      7 oz Chopped onion
      4 oz Smoked bacon, finely diced
    1/3 c  Flour
           Beef broth
           Salt
           Lemon peel, minced
           Caraway seeds, chopped
           Marjoram
           Garlic
  Put bacon and onion in pan and fry, stirring, until onions turn light
  brown.  Add paprika, chopped caraway seeds, a little marjoram and garlic,
  and a small piece of minced lemon peel.  Mix, and add beef broth. Stir in
  beef, salt and tomatoes, and bring to a boil.  Reduce heat and simmer until
  meat is tender.  Add diced potatoes and continue cooking until potatoes are
  done.  Mix flour with enough water to form a thin paste, and stir into
  soup.  Briefly bring to a boil again, stirring. Serve with sliced franks.
  Serves 4.
  Posted by Karin Brewer. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Grand Central Oyster Stew
 Categories: Soups, Seafood, Oysters
   Servings:  2
      8    Freshly opened oysters
      1 ts Worcestershire
      2 tb Butter
      1 oz Of clam juice
    1/4 c  Oyster liquor
    1/2 ts Paprika
      1 ds Of celery salt
      1 c  Half-and-half
  Place all of the ingredients except half-and-half and one tablespoon of the
  butter in the top part of a double boiler over boiling water. Don't let the
  top pan touch the water. Whisk briskly and constantly for about 1 minute,
  until oysters are just beginning to curl. Add half-and-half and continue
  stirring briskly, just to a boil.  DO NOT BOIL. Serve piping hot topped
  with the remaining 1 T. butter and sprinkled with paprika.
  Note:  To make more servings, do 2 at a time. Have bowls hot, and heat
  half-and-half before adding.
      Title: Grandma's Prune Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      1    Box (1 lb.) prunes
    1/4 ts Salt
      3 qt Water
      3 tb Flour
    1/2    Pt. sour cream
  Cook prunes and salt in water until done. Remove from heat. Gradually add
  flour to sour cream and whip until very smooth. Stir one cup of the prune
  liquid into sour cream mixture. Return mixture to the prunes. Slowly bring
  to a boil, stirring constantly, until it thickens. (Serves 6)
      Title: Granny Smith Apple-Onion Soup with Celery Root
 Categories: Soups
   Servings: 10
      2 md Onions, coarsely chopped
      2 lg Red potatoes, diced (skin
           -optional)
      3    Granny Smith apples, peeled,
           -cored and chopped
      1 md Celery root, peeled and
           -diced
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      1 ga Chicken stock
           Salt and pepper
           Chopped chives for garnish
           - (optional)
  In a large pot, saute onions, potatoes, apples, and celery root in the oil.
  When the onions are soft, add the chicken stock. Bring to a boil, then
  lower to a simmer and cook for about 40 minutes, until all the vegetables
  are very soft. Force through a sieve for puree in a blender. Return to pot
  and reheat. Add salt and pepper to taste. Serve garnished with chopped
  chives if desired.
  Serves 10
  From the cookbook "Apples" by Robert Berkley
  AR/93
      Title: Greek Fakes Xithati ( Sour Lentil Soup)
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
    1/2 l  Brown lentils
      2 l  Water
    1/4 l  Finely chopped spring onions
      1    Garlic clove (opt.); crushed
    1/2 dl Finely chopped coriander *
    3/4 dl Olive oil
    1/2 dl Cold water
      1 tb Flour
    1/2 dl Vinegar (or to taste)
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
  *Note: Finely chopped parsley may be substituted for coriander leaves.
  Wash lentils in several changes of cold water, or place in a sieve and run
  water through them.  Drain.
  Put lentils in a large pot with 8 cups water, spring onion, garlic if used,
  oil and coriander or parsley (or a combination of the two if preferred).
  Bring to the boil, cover pan and simmer on low heat for 1 hour or until
  lentils are soft.
  Put water and flour in a screw top jar, seal and shake until thoroughly
  combined.  This prevents lumps forming.  Pour this gradually into boiling
  soup, stirring constantly, until thickened slightly.  Add vinegar and salt
  and pepper to taste.  Return to the boil, boil gently for 5 minutes, then
  serve hot.
  From: "The Complete Middle East Cookbook" by Tess Mallos
        ISBN: 1 86302 069 1
      Title: Greek Revithia Soupa (Chick Pea Soup)
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      1 c  Dried chick peas
      6 c  -Cold water
      2    Onions,thinly sliced
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 ts Salt
           Lemon juice or wine vinegar
  1. Wash and soak chick p[eas overnight in water to cover. The next day,
  rinse and drain. In a 4-quart saucepan, bring 6 cups of water to a boil and
  add the chick peas. 2. Remove the froth, then add the onion and olive oil.
  Simmer until tender, about one to two hours. Add salt at the end and hot
  water (not cold), if needed to make more stock. 3. Serve hot with lemon
  juice or vinegar. Makes six servings.
  Nutritional analysis per serving: 80 calories, 3 grams protein, 2 grams
  fat, 12 grams carbohydrates. via Karen Mintzias, I-Cooking
      Title: Green Bean Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
    1/2 c  Butter
      2 md Onions, diced
      2 c  Fresh cut green beans
    1/2 c  Flour
      5 c  Bouillon
      1 pt Sour cream
  Meat for flavoring: ham hocks, leftover roast, stew or ground beef, and/or
  mashed potatoes Salt, pepper, garlic powder, bouquet garni Additional flour
  if needed
  Melt the butter in a large sauce pan and brown the onions. Add green beans
  and simmer for five to ten minutes. Stir in flour and cook five more
  minutes. Gradually add bouillon, stirring constantly so that the flour
  doesn't lump. Reduce heat and simmer for one hour. Add meat and/or mashed
  potatoes if desired. All are extremely good. Season to taste and continue
  to simmer slowly. Just before serving, mix a little of the soup with the
  sour cream until the cream becomes rather liquid. If the soup seems too
  thin, add a little flour to the sour cream mixture. Add this to the soup.
  Serve with salad and garlic bread.
      Title: Green Chile Yogurt Soup
 Categories: Soups, California
   Servings:  6
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      1 tb Oil
      4 lg Garlic cloves; minced
      1 md Onion; chopped
      2 ts Paprika
      4 c  Chicken broth
  1 1/2 lb Tomatoes; chopped
      4 oz Canned diced green chiles
    1/4 ts Chili powder
           Salt, pepper
      2 c  Plain low-fat yogurt
      4 oz Jack or cheddar cheese
           - shredded
      1 tb Chopped cilantro
  Melt butter in large kettle and add oil. Add garlic and saute until lightly
  browned. Remove garlic and set aside. Add onion to butter and saute until
  tender. Add paprika and saute 1 minute. Add chicken broth, tomatoes, chiles
  and chili powder. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Bring to boil,
  reduce heat and simmer about 20 minutes. Stir in yogurt slowly and cook
  over low heat just until heated through. Do not boil or yogurt will curdle.
  Add reserved garlic. Ladle into soup bowls and sprinkle with cheese and
  cilantro.
  (C) 1992 The Los Angeles Times
      Title: Green Garden Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  8
      2 tb Butter
      1    Watercress; bunch
    1/2    Lettuce; head
      3    Scallion; with tops
      2    Cabbage leaf
      4    Celery top
           Thyme, fresh; sprig
      1    Parsley; handful
      4 c  Chicken broth
      1    Egg yolk
    1/2 c  Cream, heavy
           Seasoning; to taste
  Chop or grind the vegetables.  Heat them gently for about ten minutes with
  the oil, and add broth.  Cover and simmer slowly until very tender, about
  45 minutes.  Beat egg yolk and cream together, and add after the soup is in
  the tureen.  Sprinkle with freshly ground black pepper.
                                        How to Cook a Wolf
                                        M.F.K. Fisher
      Title: Green Olive Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      2 c  Green olives, pitted
      3 tb Olive oil
    1/2 md Yellow onion, peeled and
           -sliced
      2    Cloves garlic, crushed
      1 qt Chicken stock
      1 c  Whipping cream
      6 tb Flour cooked with 3 Tbsp
           -olive oil to make roux
           Black pepper, freshly
           -ground, to taste
      4    Shots Tabasco
    1/3 c  Dry sherry
           Garnish:
           Sliced pimento-stuffed green
           -olives
           Garlic-bread croutons
  Serves 6 - 8
  Soak the olives in cold water for 1 hour.  Drain and coarsely chop the
  olives.  Heat a frying pan and add the oil, onion, and garlic, along with
  2/3 of the olives.  Saute until the onions are transparent. Puree this
  mixture in a food processor along with 1 cup of the stock. Place this
  mixture in a 4-quart saucepan and add the remaining stock. Simmer for 20
  minutes and add the cream. Whisk in the roux and simmer, stirring
  constantly, until thickened. Add pepper to taste and the remaining chopped
  olives, Tabasco, and dry sherry. Heat to serving temperature and serve with
  the sliced olive and crouton garnish.
  The Frugal Gourmet - 3 Ancient Cuisines From the collection of Jim Vorheis
      Title: Green Pepper and Tomato Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetarian
   Servings:  4
      2 lg Garlic cloves; peeled
      1 ts Salt
      1 tb Chopped basil
      2 tb Chopped parsley
    1/4 ts Dried thyme
      2 ts Sweet paprika
      1 tb Tomato paste
      2 tb Fruity olive oil
      2    Bay leaves
      1 lg Onion; cut in 6ths
           -and sliced thinly crosswise
      1 pn Saffron threads (generous)
      2 lb Ripe tomatoes; peeled,
           - seeded and chopped,
           - juice reserved
      2 md Green bell peppers
           - chopped into small squares
      6 c  Water
    1/3 c  White rice
           Freshly ground pepper
           Chopped basil; for garnish
           -=OR=- Chopped Parsley
           Fresh grated Parmesan cheese
  POUND THE GARLIC in a mortar with 1 teaspoon salt. Pound garlic until is
  has broken down to a paste, then gradually work in the basil, parsley,
  thyme, paprika and tomato paste. Warm the oil in a soup pot, add the
  garlic-herb paste and mix together. As soon as the oil is hot, add the bay
  leaves and the onion. Sprinkle the saffron directly over the onion, stir
  everything together and cook for 10 minutes or until the onion has
  softened. Add the pepper, tomatoes, their juice and the water to the pot.
  Bring to a boil then immediately lower the heat and cook for 25 minutes at
  a simmer. While the soup is cooking, bring 1 1/2 cups of water to a boil;
  add a dash to salt and the rice. Boil until the rice is tender, about
  12-to-15 minutes, then drain. Stir the rice into the finished soup, season
  with pepper. Serve the soup garnished with the fresh herbs and cheese.
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
      Title: Green Tomato Soup
 Categories: Soups, Canadian, Vegetables
   Servings:  1
      3 c  Tomatoes; green
           -peeled & chopped fine
      1    Onion; chopped
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
    1/8 ts Cloves; ground
      1 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts -Pepper
      2 c  -Water
    1/4 ts Baking soda
      3 tb Butter
      3 tb Flour; all purpose
      4 c  Milk
  Place in the saucepan; the tomatoes, onion, cinnamon, ground cloves, sugar,
  pepper and water. Bring to a boil and boil for 30 minutes. Add the soda.
  Melt the butter, add the flour. Mix and add the milk. Cook till creamy,
  stirring constantly. Add green tomatoes to the cream. Mix thoroughly. Salt
  to taste and serve.
  from the Quebec section of the _The Canadiana Cookbook_ by Mme. Jehane
  Benoit
      Title: Greenbirar Peach Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
      2 lb Ripe Peaches (about 4 cups
           - roughly chopped, reserve
           - the juice)
  1 1/2 c  Sour cream
      1 c  Reserved peach juice
    1/2 c  Pineapple juice
    1/2 c  Orange juice
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Dry Sherry
      8    Mint sprigs
  1.  Combine the peaches and the sour cream in a blender and work them to a
  puree.  Add the peach, pineapple, orange and lemon juices and the sherry
  and blend until very smooth.
  2.  Transfer to a bowl, cove and chill thoroughly (at leas 2 hours) then
  ladle into chilled bowls, add the mind and serve either as a first course
  or dessert.
  From "The Greenbriar Cookbook," The Greenbriar, White Sulphur Springs , WV
  as published in the Chicago Tribune Magazine (5/16/930
  posted by Bud Cloyd
      Title: Habitant Pea Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
     10 c  Water
      2 c  Yellow or green dried split
           - peas
    1/2 lb Lean salt pork
           -OR-
      2 c  Diced smoked ham
      1    Ham hock
      2    Bay leaves
      1    Onion, finely chopped
      2    Carrpts, diced
      1 c  Celery with leaves, finely
           - chopped
           Salt and pepper to taste
  EQUIPMENT:  large saucepan with cover, mixing spoon.
  1.  Hat water and peas in saucepan over high heat.  Bring to a boil for 2
  minutes, remove from heat, cover, and set aside for 1 hour.
  2.  Add salt pork or smoked ham, ham hock, bay leaves, onion, carrots, and
  celery to pea mixture and breing to boil over high heat.  Reduce and
  simmer, cover and cood for about 1-1/5 hours until peas are tender,
  stirring frequently.  If necessary, skim off fat. If using salt pork,
  remove form soup, cut into small pieces, and return to soup.  Remove ham
  hock and discard.  Add salt and pepper to taste.
  SERVE; hot in individual bowls. Pass saltines or crusty bread for dunking
  From:  "THe Multicultural Cookbook for Students,"  Albyn & Webb, ORYX
  Press, 1993. Posted by Bud Cloyd
      Title: Haddock Chowder
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
  3 1/2 lb Haddock
    1/3 lb Salt pork
      2    Medium onions, chopped
      2 c  Pared, diced potatoes
      1 qt Whole milk
      1 cn Evaporated milk
  HADDOCK CHOWDER From America:
  Have the haddock cleaned and cut up to boil.  Barely cover with salted
  water and cook until the fish comes off the bones. Don't cook until the
  flesh is soft and mushy. Set aside to cool.
  While fish is cooling, cut the pork into 1/4" cubes and fry until crisp in
  a large heavy kettle. Drain the cubes on paper towels and pour off all but
  4 tbls of the fat. In this fat, cook the chopped onions over low heat until
  trnasparent.  Add the potatoes and enough of the fish liquor to cover them.
  Simmer gently until potatoes are cooked.
  Pick the fish flakes from the bones, adding to the chowder mixture when the
  potatoes are done.  Add quart of milk and evaporated milk. Set aside until
  serving time.
  It imporves the flavor of the chowder greatly to let it stand for several
  hours before serving.  Be sure it is piping hot when bringing it to the
  table.
  Biscuits and pickles always go with a good chowder.
      Title: Ham and Bean Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  1
      2 c  Ham (diced)
      1 md Onion
      1    Celery stick
      1 md Carrot (grated fine)
           Salt and pepper to taste
    1/4 c  Catsup
           Hot peppers (optional)
           Keep seeds in for FIRE!
  Mix ingredients in saucepan.  Cover with water and cook for about 45
  minutes.  Then add 2 cans (16 ounces) of great northern beans, and cook for
  15 minutes.
      Title: Ham Bone and Bean Soup
 Categories: Soups, Tabasco
   Servings:  8
     10 oz 15-bean soup beans
           - or other "ham" beans
  1 1/2 c  Ham scraps or fat; divided
      1    Ham bone (optional)
      1    Turkey carcass (optional)
      1    Celery stalk; sliced
    1/2    Carrot; sliced
    1/2    Bay leaf; crumbled
  2 1/2 qt Water (or more)
      1    Onion; chopped
      2    Garlic cloves; chopped
           Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
           Tabasco (optional)
           Finely chopped fresh herbs
           - (optional) -
  COVER THE BEANS WITH WATER and soak overnight, or place in a pan, cover,
  and bring to the boil. Remove from heat and let sit 1 hour. Drain. Make a
  stock of 1 cup of the ham scraps or ham bone and optional turkey carcass,
  celery, carrot, bay leaf and water by bringing to the boil, reducing heat,
  and simmering a couple of hours. Degrease and strain. This may be done
  ahead and frozen. When ready to cook, add the beans, onion, and garlic to
  the stock, and bring to the boil, reduce heat, and simmer until done, about
  45 minutes to an hour. Season to taste with salt and pepper and optional
  hot sauce. Add freshly chopped herbs if desired. Remove from the heat. May
  be made 1 to 2 days ahead. Add the remainder of the ham 1/2 hour before
  serving. Bring back to the boil, reduce heat and simmer, covered.
  NATHALIE DUPREE
  PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
      Title: Ham-And-Bean Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      1 lb Dried Great Northern Beans
      6 c  Water
  1 1/2 lb Ham, cubed
      2 ts Salt
      1 ts Dried whole thyme
    1/2 ts Dried parsley flakes
      4    Peppercorns
      3    Cloves garlic, minced
      1    Bay leaf
      2 c  Water
      4 md Potatoes, peel and quarter
      3    Carrots, scraped & cut into
           -1/2-inch slices
      1 md Onion, finely chopped
  Sort & wash beans; place in a Dutch oven.  Cover with water 2 inches above
  beans; let soak overnight.  Drain.
  Combine beans, 6 cups water, and next 7 ingredients in a large Dutch oven;
  bring to a boil.  Reduce heat, cover, and simmer for 1 1/2 hours. Add 2
  cups water and vegetables to soup.  Cover and simmer for about 30 minutes
  or until vegetables are tender.
  Yield: about 1 gallon.
  Posted by Michael Grosz. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Hamburger Soup
 Categories: Soups, Ground beef, Potatoes
   Servings:  6
      1 tb Butter
      1 bn Scallions, cut up
      1    Clove garlic, crushed (or
           -1/2 tsp garlic powder
  1 1/2 lb Lean ground beef (up to 2
           -pounds)
           Salt and pepper to taste
      2 cn Cream of mushroom soup
           Mashed potatoes
  Saute the scallions and garlic in butter.  Add the meat and salt and pepper
  to taste.  Cook meat until the red disappears, breaking up with a fork. Add
  the soup and heat through.  Pour over mashed potatoes and serve at once.
  [ The Asbury Park Press; Dec 2, 1987 ]
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Hannah Storm's "Mystery" Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
      1    Onion,large,chopped
      1 lb Mushrooms,sliced
      1    Butter stick
    1/3 c  Flour
      2 qt Chicken broth
      2 c  Canned pumpkin*
      2 c  Light cream
      3 tb Honey
      2 ts Nutmeg
  Servings:  8
  Before making her name as CNN's sole female sportscaster, Hannah Storm was
  famous for her misadventures in the kitchen. "When I was younger, my
  brothers used to make fun of me," says Storm. "Once, I was following this
  wonderful chocolate-coffee bundt cake recipe, and I used a cup of
  freeze-dried coffee grounds. The joke circulated around the family for
  years, 'I ate a piece of Hannah's cake and was up for two days straight'."~
  Storm has since honed her culinary skills. One dish she's mastered is her
  mother's famous pumpkin soup. "This soup was always a mystery soup for
  anyone outside of the family," says Storm. "My mother never liked to tell
  people what was in it because they probably wouldn't try it."~ ~ * - not
  pie filling~ ~ In a large soup pot, saute onion and mushrooms in butter for
  1-2 minutes. Remove from heat and stir in flour. Add chicken broth and
  pumpkin. Bring to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer for 20 minutes. Stir in
  cream, honey, nutmeg and serve.~ ~ OPTIONAL GARNISH: Sprinkle with croutons
  or crispy chinese noodles and Parmesan cheese.
      Title: Hardy Vegetable Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables, Canadian
   Servings: 10
      4 qt Water
    3/4 c  Celery, Chopped
    3/4 c  Onion, Chopped
      2    Garlic Cloves, Chopped
      1 c  Carrots, Sliced
      2 c  Potatoes, Diced
      2 tb Canola Oil
    1/2 c  Tomato Paste
    1/2 c  Green Pepper, Diced
      1 c  Mixed Vegetables *
    1/2 tb Sweet Basil
           Salt & Pepper To Taste
    1/2 c  Macaroni
    1/2 c  Pot Barley
      2 c  Chicken, Beef,Ham (Leftovers
      2 c  Coarsley Chopped Cabbage
      1    Tomato, Chopped
  In a soup pot saute the celery, onion and garlic in oil for 5 minutes. Add
  water, vegetables, pot barley, meats, seasonings. Bring to the boil and
  simmer for 1 1/4 hours. For last 1/4 hour add cabbage and macaroni. * Soup
  mix
      Title: Harvest Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
      1 c  Chopped Onions
      1 tb Oil
      3 cn (14 1/2 Oz.) Chicken
           Broth
      1 cn 16 Oz. Pumpkin
      1 cn (7 1/2 Oz.) Hunt'S Whole
           Tomatoes, Drained & Crushed
  1 1/2 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Curry Powder
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/8 ts Crushed Cloves
      1 c  Skim Milk
      1 ts Cornstarch
  in Large Saucepan, Saute Onions in Oil Until Tender.  Stir in Remaining
  Ingredients Except Milk & Cornstarch.  Boil & Simmer, Uncovered 10 Min. in
  A Cup, Mix Milk & Cornstarch.  Add To Soup & Stir Constantly. Boil Until
  Thickened Slightly.
      Title: Harvest Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      2    To 3 garlic cloves
      1    Kale leaf
      1 lg Tomato
      2    Stalk celery
      1    Collard leaf, chopped
      1 tb Croutons
  Roll garlic in kale leaf, and push through hopper with tomato and celery.
  Place juice in saucepan, add chopped collards and gently heat. Garnish with
  croutons.
      Title: Hay Box Short Rib Vegetable Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
    1/2 c  Diced onion
      1 tb Minced fresh celery leaves
    3/4 c  Diced potato
    3/4 c  Diced carrot
    3/4 c  Diced celery
      1 c  Chopped cabbage
      1 c  Fresh, whole, peeled
           -tomatoes
      2 lb Short ribs, cut into 3 inch
           -pieces
      5 c  Water
      1    Bay leaf
           Salt and freshly ground
           -black pepper to taste
    1/4 c  Barley
  Assemble and prepare all vegetables.  Place short ribs and water in a heavy
  soup pot.  Turn burner to high and boil. Add all the vegetables and bring
  to a rolling boil.  Add bay leaf, salt and pepper, and barley. Stir well.
  Cover immediately with a tight fitting lid.  Cook in a hay box 8 hours.
  Reheat on top of stove a few minutes.  Serves 6-8.
  Origin:  Almanac's Hearth Companion for 1993. Shared by: Sharon Stevens
      Title: Healthy Liver Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
    1/2 lb Liver, chopped
      2 tb Butter
      4 sm Carrots, diced
    1/2 c  Celery, diced
      1 lg Onion, thinly sliced
      2 c  Hot water
      1 tb Sugar
      1 c  Fresh or frozen spinach
     20 oz Can Tomatoes
      Salt and Pepper to taste
   Stir cook the liver in butter.Add remaining ingredients.Stir well.
   Cook covered (25 min in microwave).  This soup freezes and reheats very
  well.
   This will take some experimenting but I could make it at the same time as
  a stir fry and freeze the soup in plastic ice cube trays instead of
  freezing half the package of raw liver.
  Have you tried it using a creamed soup?
  I'm not all that fond of cooked tomatoes, but it looks like it might be
  good using something like cream of Cheddar...
  Also... were you using beef or chicken or what?
  Also... how about some diced potatoes...?
  OTOH...  Let's eliminate the butter and use bacon...  Turns it into a
  chowder...
      Title: Heart Russian Beet Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
      1 c  Navy beans, dry
  2 1/2 lb Lean beef
    1/2 lb Slab bacon
     10 c  Cold water
      1    Bay leaf
      8    Whole peppercorns
      2    Cloves garlic
      2 tb Dried parsley
      1    Carrot
      1    Celery stalk
      1    Large red onion
      1 ts Salt (opt)
      8    Beets for soup
      2    Small beets
      2 c  Green cabbage, shredded
      2    Large leeks, sliced
      3    Medium potatoes, cut
           Into eighths
      1 cn (1 lb 13 oz) tomatoes
      1 tb Tomato paste
      3 tb Red wine vinegar
      4 tb Sugar
      1 lb Kielbasa (opt)
      2 tb Flour
      1 tb Butter, melted
    1/2 c  Sour cream (opt)
  Cover beans with water and allow to soak overnight; cook until tender;
  drain; set aside.  Place beef, bacon and water in large soup pot; bring to
  a boil. Skim fat from surface. Add bay leaf, peppercorns, garlic, parsley,
  carrot, celery, onion and salt.  Cover and simmer over low heat for about 1
  1/2 hours.
  Scrub beets for soup and cook in boiling water until tender, about 45
  minutes; drain and discard water; cool.  Peel and cut each beet into
  eighths.  Scrub small beets; grate; cover with water to soak.
  Remove meat from soup; set aside.  Strain soup into another pot and add
  cooked beets, cabbage, leeks, potatoes, tomatoes, tomato paste, vinegar,
  sugar, beef and bacon.  Bring to a boil and simmer 45 minutes.
  Cut kielbasa into chunks and add with navy beans to soup.  Simmer 20
  minutes more.
  Mix flour and butter together to form paste.  Stir into soup to thicken
  slightly.  Strain raw beets, saving liquid and discarding beets.  Add beet
  liquid to soup.
  Additional sugar or vinegar may be added for sweeter or more sour flavor.
  Slice meat and arrange in individual soup bowls.  Pour hot soup with
  vegetables over meat.  Garnish each serving with a dollop of sour cream, if
  desired.
      Title: Heartland Corn Chowder
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  6
  1 1/2 lb Smoked ham bones
      3 md Onions, peeled and quartered
      3 md Carrots, peeled and
           -quartered
      3 md Potatoes, peeled and
           -quartered
      4    Ribs celery (inside stalks),
           -chopped
      1    Green bell pepper, seeded
           -and sliced
      2    Bay leaves
      2 ts Dried thyme
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
      3 qt Water
      2 c  Fresh milk
      4 c  Fresh corn kernels
      8 sl Bacon, cooked and crumbled
  Place ham bones, onions, carrots, potatoes, celery, green pepper, bay
  leaves, thyme, salt and pepper in the water and bring to a boil over
  medium-high heat.  Cook at a slow boil for 2 1/2 to 3 hours.  Strain the
  broth and discard the bay leaves and bones, reserving the ham and
  vegetables.  Skim off and discard fat from the broth.  Puree the cooked
  vegetables and ham in a food processor until smooth.  Bring the broth to a
  boil again and add the pureed vegetables, milk and corn.  Let simmer for 5
  minutes.  Serve, sprinkled with bacon.
  Makes 6 to 8 servings.
  [MID-ATLANTIC COUNTRY; November 1990]
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Hearty Bean Soup
 Categories: Soups, Beans
   Servings:  6
     20 oz Pkg Hamm beans or 2 c mixed
           -dried beans
      1    Ham bone or ham hock (I use
           -1 lb ham chunks)
  2 1/3 ts Bouquet garni (can buy in
           -the spice section)
      3 qt Water
     28 oz Can tomatoes
      2 lg Onions, chopped (2 cups)
      4    Ribs celery, chopped (2
           -cups)
      2    Cloves garlic, minced
      1 lb Smoked kielbasa or Polish
           -sausage (optional)
  Salt and pepper Chopped fresh parsley
  Rinse beans under cold running water.  Drain.  Place in 8 quart Dutch oven
  with ham bone, bouquet garni and water.  Bring to a simmer over medium
  heat.  Reduce heat to low.  Simmer covered for 2 1/2 to 3 hours, adding
  water as necessary to keep beans covered.  Add tomatoes, onions, celery and
  garlic.  Simmer, covered, for 1 1/2 hours.  If using sausage, cut in 1 inch
  chunks and add.  Simmer for 30 minutes longer. Remove from heat; add salt
  and pepper.  Sprinkle with parsley before serving.
  10 (1 cup) servings without sausage.
  Posted by Ellen Cleary. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Hearty Beef Vegetable Soup with Noodles
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  6
      1 lb Medium Ground Beef
     14 oz Italian Tomato Sauce
      8 c  Water
      2    Onions, Chopped
      1 lb Frozen Corn, Peas, Carrots
      6 oz Egg Noodles
  1 1/2 tb Extra Virgin Olive Oil
      1 tb Oregano
      1 tb Mexican Chili Powder
      1 tb Freshly Ground Pepper
      2 ts Red Cayenne Pepper
      2 ts Salt
  Put 8 cups of water, 1 14 oz can of Italian tomato sauce, 2 medium sized
  onions (chopped), 1 pound of mixed frozen vegetables into a pot. Add the
  seasoning and olive oil, heat on high for 30 minutes. Brown the beef in a
  frying pan, transfer the beef to the soup mixture using a slotted spoon to
  leave the fat in the frying pan. Turn the heat to medium, heat for 10
  minutes. Add the egg noodles, turn the heat to low and heat another 20
  minutes. Taste and adjust seasoning. Serve with grated Parmesan cheese.
      Title: Hearty Chicken Chowder
 Categories: Chicken, Soups
   Servings:  6
      1    Leftover chicken carcass
      1    Bouguet garni (4 parsley
           -sprigs, 1/4 tsp dried
           Thyme, 1 bay leaf, and 10
           -peppercorns tied in
           Cheesecloth)
      2    Cloves garlic
      3 md Potatoes, peeled and diced
      3    Carrots, sliced
      2    Ribs celery, chopped
      1 md Onion, chopped
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Dried marjoram
    1/4 ts Freshly ground pepper
      2 c  Scalded milk
      2    Egg yolks
      2 tb Dry sherry
      1 c  Chopped cooked chicken
      2    Eggs, hard cooked and
           -chopped (Optional)
      2 tb Chopped fresh parsley
  In a large saucepan, combine the chicken carcass, bouquet garni and garlic
  in 2 quarts of water.  Bring to a boil, reduce heat, and simmer, covered,
  for 1 hour.  Strain broth, refrigerate, and skim fat.
  In a large saucepan, bring broth to a boil over medium heat.  Add potatoes,
  carrots, celery, onion, salt, marjoram and pepper.  Cook until vegetables
  are tender, about 10 minutes.
  Beat milk into egg yolks in a small bowl.  Gradually whisk in 1/2 cup of
  the hot broth.  Stir into soup.  Add sherry, chicken, and chopped eggs.
  Heat through.
  Pour into bowls.  Garnish with parsley and serve with chese biscuits or
  cornbread.
  Serves 6.
  [ 365 Ways To Cook Chicken; Cheryl Sedaker, 1986 ]
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Hearty Halloween Soup
 Categories: Soups, Poultry
   Servings:  6
      1 lb Ground turkey
      1 c  Chopped onion
      1 c  Celery, diced
      2    Cloves garlic, diced
      6 c  Water
      1    Cube vegetable, beef or
           -chicken bouillon
      1 c  Red potatoes, diced
      1    Bay leaf
    1/8 ts Basil
      2 tb Parsley, chopped
    1/2 ts Thyme
      6    Tomatoes, diced
      1 c  Leftover turkey gravy
      2 c  Vermicelli
  Place everything except vermicelli in the kettle and simmer 1 hour.  Add
  vermicelli and simmer until cooked.
  More suitable after Thanksgiving than at Halloween.
  Serves 6.
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Hearty Meatless Chili
 Categories: Soups, Beans, Garlic
   Servings:  4
      1    Env. Soup Mix *
      4 c  Water
     16 oz Chick Peas **
     16 oz Red Kidney Beans ***
 14 1/2 oz Tomatoes ****
      1 c  Lentils, Rinsed & Drained
      1 lg Stalk Celery *****
      1 tb Chili Powder
      2 ts Ground Cumin
      1 md Clove Garlic Fine Chopped
    1/4 ts Crushed Red Pepper
  * One of the following soup mixes can be used. Onion, Onion-Mushroom. **
  Use either chick peas or garbanzos, rinsed and drained. *** Rinse and drain
  the Kidney beans. **** Tomatoes should be whole peeled tomatoes undrained
  and chopped. ***** Celery stalk should be coarsely chopped.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  In large saucepan or stockpot, combine all ingredients.  Bring to a boil,
  then simmer, covered, stirring occasionally, 20 minutes or until lentils
  are almost tender.   Remove cover and simmer, stirring occasionally, an
  additional 30 minutes or until liquid is almost absorded and lentils are
  tender.  Serve, if desired, over hot cooked brown or white rice and top
  with shredded cheddar cheese.
      Title: Hearty Minestrone
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      1 lb Hot Or Mild Italian Sausage
      2 tb Olive Oil
      1 lg Onion, Chopped
      3 lg Cloves Garlic, Chopped
      5 c  Chicken Stock
     28 oz Tomatoes, Chopped
     10 oz Frozen Spinach, Chopped
  1 1/2 c  Sliced Carrots
  1 1/2 c  Frozen Cut Beans
  1 1/2 ts Dried Basil
    1/2 ts Dried Marjoram
      1 pn Hot Pepper Flakes
     19 oz Romano Beans
    3/4 c  Small Shell Pasta
  Prick the skins of the sausages; place in a saucepan and cover with water.
  Bring to a boil, cover and let simmer for 15 minutes or until cooked.
  Drain; cut into slices. In a large saucepan or dutch kettle, heat oil and
  lightly brown the sausage slices. Add the onions and garlic; cook 2 - 3
  minutes until softened. Add the chicken stock, chopped tomatoes including
  juice, frozen spinach, carrots, beans, basil, marjoram and red pepper
  flakes. Bring to a boil, reduce heat and let simmer, covered, for 10
  minutes or until vegetables are almost tender. Add the romano beans
  including liquid, and the pasta and peas. Let simmer 5 ~ 7 minutes more or
  until pasta is al dente - tender but firm. Adjust seasoning with salt and
  pepper to taste. Thin soup with additional chicken stock (if you wish).
  Ladle soup into heated bowls and sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese.
  Serves 6 - 8. From The Gazette, 91/01/09.
      Title: Hearty Potato Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
      6 md Potatoes, peeled & sliced
      2    Carrots, diced
      6    Celery stalks, diced
      2 qt Water
      1    Onion, chopped
      6 tb Butter or Margarine
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
  1 1/2 c  Milk
  From an old Dutch recipe.
  In a large kettle, cook potatoes, carrots and celery in water until tender,
  about 20 minutes.  Drain, reserving liquid and setting vegetavles aside. In
  the same kettle, saute onion until soft.  Stir in flour, salt and pepper,
  gradually add milk, stirring constantly until thickened. Gently stir in
  cooked vegetables. Add 1 cup or more of reserved cooking liquid until soup
  is desired consistency.
      Title: Hearty Russian Beet Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
      1 c  Navy beans, dry
  2 1/2 lb Lean beef
    1/2 lb Slab bacon
     10 c  Cold water
      1    Bay leaf
      8    Whole peppercorns
      2    Cloves garlic
      2 tb Dried parsley
      1    Carrot
      1    Celery stalk
      1    Large red onion
      1 ts Salt (opt)
      8    Beets for soup
      2    Small beets
      2 c  Green cabbage, shredded
      2    Large leeks, sliced
      3    Medium potatoes, cut
           Into eighths
      1 cn (1 lb 13 oz) tomatoes
      1 tb Tomato paste
      3 tb Red wine vinegar
      4 tb Sugar
      1 lb Kielbasa (opt)
      2 tb Flour
      1 tb Butter, melted
    1/2 c  Sour cream (opt)
  Cover beans with water and allow to soak overnight; cook until tender;
  drain; set aside.  Place beef, bacon and water in large soup pot; bring to
  a boil. Skim fat from surface. Add bay leaf, peppercorns, garlic, parsley,
  carrot, celery, onion and salt.  Cover and simmer over low heat for about 1
  1/2 hours.
  Scrub beets for soup and cook in boiling water until tender, about 45
  minutes; drain and discard water; cool.  Peel and cut each beet into
  eighths.  Scrub small beets; grate; cover with water to soak.
  Remove meat from soup; set aside.  Strain soup into another pot and add
  cooked beets, cabbage, leeks, potatoes, tomatoes, tomato paste, vinegar,
  sugar, beef and bacon.  Bring to a boil and simmer 45 minutes.
  Cut kielbasa into chunks and add with navy beans to soup.  Simmer 20
  minutes more.
  Mix flour and butter together to form paste.  Stir into soup to thicken
  slightly.  Strain raw beets, saving liquid and discarding beets.  Add beet
  liquid to soup.
  Additional sugar or vinegar may be added for sweeter or more sour flavor.
  Slice meat and arrange in individual soup bowls.  Pour hot soup with
  vegetables over meat.  Garnish each serving with a dollop of sour cream, if
  desired.
      Title: Hearty Soup Mix
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  1
      1 pk (14 oz)Dry Green Split Peas
      1 pk (14 oz) Alpahbet Macaroni
  1 1/2 c  Brown Rice
      1 pk (12 oz) Pearl Barley
      1 pk (12 oz) Lentils
      4 c  Dry Minced Onion
  Combine all ingredients in a large airtight container.  Stir to evenly
  distribute ingredients.  Label as Hearty Soup Mix.  Store in a cool, dry
  place and use within 6 months.  Shake well before using.
  Makes about 12 1/2 cups of mix. Hearty Soup Stock: Put 6 cups of water and
  1 1/3 cups of mix in a large kettle or Dutch oven. Add 1 1/2 T salt. Bring
  to a boil.  Cover and simmer 1 to 1 1/2 hours. Add 2 carrots, sliced, 1 or
  2 stalks celery, chopped, 1 1/2 cups cabbage, shredded, 2 (15 oz) cans of
  tomato sauce, 1 (24 oz) can vegetable juice cocktail, and if desired 1 lb
  lean cooked ground beef or leftover cooked beef. Simmer 20 more minutes,
  until vegetables are cooked.
  Makes 6 to 8 servings.
      Title: Hearty Vegetable Soup
 Categories: Soups, Beans, Garlic
   Servings: 10
     15 oz Can Red Kidney Beans
     32 oz Canned Tomatoes, Cut Up
     15 oz Canned Great Northern Beans
     15 oz Garbanzo Beans
    1/2 c  Water
      3 md Onions, Chopped
      2    Green Peppers Chopped
      2    Celery Stalks, Sliced
      1    Zucchini, Halved Sliced
      2    Cloves Garlic, Minced
      2 ts Dried Basil, Crushed
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1    Bay Leaf
  Combine the undrained tomatoes, undrained beans, water, and remaining
  vegetables and seasonings in a 4-quart Dutch oven.  Bring to boil. Reduce
  the heat; cover and simmer for about 1 hour or until vegs. are tender. Cal:
  180 per serving; 1/4g fat.
      Title: Hearty Vegetable Soup
 Categories: Vegetables, Soups
   Servings: 12
      2 tb Salad oil
      1 md Onion, thinly sliced
      2    Celery satalk, cut in
           -1/4-inch diagonal slices
      1    Clove garlic, minced
      4    Bouillon cubes (chicken or
           -vegetarian)
      8 c  Water
      1 cn Tomatoes, undrained (1 Lb,
           -12 oz)
      4    Carrots, pared, cut in
           -1/4-inch diagonal slices
      2 c  Small cauliflower flowerets
      1 pk Frozen lima beans (10 oz)
    1/2 ts Dried marjoram leaves,
           -crushed
    1/2 ts Dried thyme leaves, crushed
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1 c  Ditalini or tubettini
           -macaroni
      2 tb Fresh parsley, chopped
           -(optional)
  Heat oil over medium heat in 5-quart Dutch oven or kettle.  Add onion,
  celery, and garlic; saute for 2 minutes until onion is limp.  Stir in
  bouillon cubes, water and tomatoes with their liquid, crushing tomatoes
  into small pieces.  Bring to a boil over high heat; add remaining
  vegetables, marjoram, thyme, and pepper.  Return to boiling, then reduce
  heat to low; simmer, uncovered, for 15 minutes.  Add macaroni to soup;
  cook, covered, for 15 minutes longer.  Serve in warmed bowls. Sprinkle with
  chopped parsley.
  Makes 12 (1-cup) servings.
  [McCall's COOKING SCHOOL No 12] Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Hearty Vegetable Beef Soup
 Categories: Soups, Beef, Vegetables
   Servings:  8
      2 lb Stew beef, cubed
  1 1/2 c  Corn
  3 1/2 qt Water
      2    Onions, sliced
      1    Onion, chopped
      1 lg Potato, cubed
      1 tb Salt
      1 c  Spinach, chopped
    1/2 ts Thyme
      1 c  Green beans, chopped
    1/2 c  Split peas
      1 c  Green peas
      6    Carrots, sliced
      1 c  Lima beans
      3 c  Celery, diced
      1 c  Ketchup
      1    Green pepper, diced
      2 tb Parsley, chopped
      3 md Tomatoes, cubed
  In large kettle, cover beef with water and add chopped onion, salt, thyme.
  Bring to boil.  Skim fat from surface.  Add split peas, cover and simmer
  over low heat, 3 to 4 hours.  Add all remaining ingredients. Cover and
  simmer for 30 minutes.  Adjust seasoning.
  Serves 8.
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Hearty Venison Soup
 Categories: Venison, Soups, Game
   Servings:  6
      4 tb Corn oil
      1 lb Venison, cubed
      1 lb Sweet Italian sausage
     28 oz Can tomatoes
      3 c  Water
      1 c  Chopped onions
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      2    Potatoes, peeled, cubed
      1 c  Celery, sliced
  In large kettle, heat oil, add venison, and brown all sides.  Remove meat
  with a slotted spoon and set aside.  Add sausage, sliced, to kettle and
  brown on all sides.  Drain off drippings.  Add tomatoes (broken up with a
  spoon), water, onion, Worcestershire sauce, and browned venison. Heat to
  boiling.  Reduce heat to simmer, cover and cook until almost tender - about
  1 1/2 hours.  Add cubed potatoes and sliced celery and simmer until
  vegetables and meat are tender, about 1 hour more.
  Posted by Earl Shelsby. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Hearty Winter Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      3    Lamb shanks
  2 1/2 l  Water (10 cups)
      1    Onion, chopped
      1    Celery stick, chopped
    1/2 c  Brown lentils
      4    Carrots, chopped
      2    Potatoes, chopped
      1    Small turnip, chopped
    1/4    Cabbage, small shredded
      2    Bacon rashers, chopped
      1    Onion, chopped, extra
      1    Celery stick, chopped, extra
      2    Beef stock cubes
      2 tb Parsely, chopped
      1    Red capsicum, chopped
  Combine lamb shanks, water, onion and celery in a large waucepan, bring to
  the boil, reduce heat, simmer, covered for 1 1/2 hours, cool, refrigerate
  overnight.
  Cover lentils with water, soak overnight.
  Next day, strain stock, discard fat and vegetables.  Return stock to
  saucepan with drained lentils and chopped meat from shanks.  Bring to the
  boil, add carrots, potatoes, turnip and cabbage.  Cook bacon, extra onion
  and celery in frying pan until onion is soft;  add to soup with crumbled
  stock cubes.  Simmer covered for 1 hour.
  Add parsely and capsicum just before serving.
  NOTES:  Cook the stock for the soup a couple of days before required, add
  most of the vegetables on the day of serving.   Stir capsicum and parsely
  in as you serve the soup.  Make a complete meal by serving with hot crusty
  bread   Recipe unsuitable to freeze or microwave.
  Source:  Australian Womens Weekly Family Menu Planner No 2 Shared by: Mike
  Kear
      Title: Heavenly Corn Chowder
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  6
    1/2 lb Bacon, diced
      1 lg Onion, diced
      1 c  Celery, diced
      3    #303 cn cream corn
      2 lg Potatoes, diced
           Milk to taste
  Boil potatoes until done - drain. Place bacon in large (5 Qt.) kettle and
  fry until crisp.  Add onion and celery.  Simmer over low heat until
  vegetables are limp.  Drain off excess fat.  Add 3 cans creamed corn,
  boiled potatoes and milk to bring to desired consistency.  Add lots of salt
  and pepper to desired taste.  Heat to boiling point, but don't boil.
  Courtesy of: Joann Pierce
      Title: Herbed Fresh Tomato Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
      2 md Onions, thinly sliced
      2 tb Olive oil or cooking oil
  2 1/2 c  Water
      6 md Tomatoes, peeled and
           -quartered (about 2 lbs)
      1    6 oz can tomato paste
      2 tb Snipped fresh basil, or 2
           -tsp dried, crushed basil
      1 tb Snipped fresh thyme, or 1
           -Tbl dried, crushed thyme
      1 tb Instant chicken bouillon
           -granules
    1/2 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
           Few dashes bottled hot
           -pepper sauce
           Snipped parsley
  Servings: 8
  In a large saucepan, cook onion in hot oil till tender.  Stir in water,
  tomatoes, tomato paste, basil, thyme, bouillon granules, sugar, salt,
  pepper and hot pepper sauce.  Bring to boil, reduce heat.  Cover and simmer
  40 min.  Place about 1/3 of tomato mixture in a blender container or food
  processor bowl and process until smooth.  (Or press through food mill).
  Repeat with remaining mixture.  Reheat half of mixture and serve
  immediately.  To freeze, cool the remaining mixture and pour into a 3 cup
  freezer container seal, label and freeze.  To serve frozen portion,
  transfer to medium saucepan.  Cover and cook over med. heat for 20 - 25
  minutes or until heated through, stirring occasionally. Sprinkle with
  parsley before serving.
  Serves 4.
  Courtesy of Joann Pierce (Aug 27, 1990)
      Title: Herbed Split Pea Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      5    Strips bacon
      1    Onion, chopped
      1    Carrot, diced
      3    Ribs celery with leaves,
           -chopped
      3 tb Fresh parsley, minced
      1 tb Fresh thyme, minced
      1 sm Imported bay leaf
    1/4 ts Dried rosemary
    1/2 lb Split peas, picked over
      1 ts Worchestershire sauce
      6 c  Chicken broth
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
      1 tb Fresh chives, snipped, for
           -garnish
  Blanch the bacon in boiling water for 1 minute, drain, pat dry on paper
  towel, and coarsely chop.  Place bacon in a large soup kettle, set over
  medium heat and cook, stirring, until the bacon turns a light golden color.
  Add the chopped onion and stir-cook for 1 minute.  Add the carrot and
  stir-cook for 30 seconds; add the celery and stir-cook for 30 seconds. Stir
  in the parsley, thyme, bay leaf, rosemary, split peas, Worchestershire
  sauce, and broth.  Bring to a boil, skimming the top as necessary. Boil for
  1 minute then cover and simmer until the peas are tender, about 1 1/2
  hours.  (Can be prepared in advance up to this point.) For serving, season
  with salt and fresh pepper to taste.  Ladle into warm bowls and top each
  serving with snipped chives.
  Makes 4 generous servings.
  [WASHINGTON POST  JAN 11, 1989] Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Herbed Tomato Soup
 Categories: Soups, Microwave
   Servings:  2
      2 tb Chopped Onion
      1 tb Butter Or Margarine
      8 oz Tomato Sauce
    1/4 ts Dried Basil, Crushed
    1/8 ts Dried Thyme, Crushed
      1 ds Freshly Ground Pepper
      1 c  Water
      1 ts Instant Chicken Bouillon
           Parmesan Croutons
  In a 4-cup measure micro-cook onion and butter or margarine, uncovered, on
  100% power 1 to 1 1/2 minutes or until onion is tender but not brown. Stir
  in tomato sauce, dried basil, dried thyme, and freshly ground pepper.
  Micro-cook, uncovered, on 50% of power for 4 to 6 minutes or just till
  boiling.  Stir in the water and instant chicken bouillon granules.
  Micro-cook, uncovered, on 100% power for 2 to 3 minutes or till the mixture
  is heated through.  Serve with the Parmesan Croutons.
      Title: Herbed Vegetable Stew
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  6
      2 ts Crushed basil leaves
      2 ts Crushed parsley flakes
      1 ts Dried tarragon leaves
      1 ts Onion powder
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
    1/4 ts Black pepper
      2 c  Minature carrot halves
      1 c  Fresh green beans, cut into
           -2 inch pieces
    1/3 c  Water
      2 c  Cauliflower
      2 c  Broccoli florets
    1/2 c  White zinfandel wine
      1 c  Sliced fresh nushrooms
      1 c  Sliced fresh zucchini
      1 c  Sliced fresh yellow squash
      1 c  Sliced fresh pattypan squash
      1    Red bell pepper, sliced into
           -strips
      1 c  Fresh or frozen peas
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      1 c  Radish halves
    In a small cup combine basil, parsley, tarragon, salt, onion and garlic
  powders and black pepper; set aside.
    In a 3 quart microwaveable casserole combine carrots, green beans and
  water. Cover with vented plastic wrap and microwave on high for 6 minutes.
  Add cauliflower and broccoli, cover and microwave on high 6 minutes more.
  Drain vegetables, add wine and reserved seasonings. Stir, cover and set
  aside.
    In a 2 quart casserole, place mushrooms, zucchini, yellow and pattypan
  squash halves, red bell pepper and peas. Add olive oil, toss to coat. Cover
  and microwave on high 4 minutes, or until vegetables are tender-crisp.
    Stir mushroom mixture into carrot mixture. Add radishes, cover and
  microwave on high 4 minutes, or until steaming hot.
  Source: Houston Chronicle
      Title: Herbed Vegetable Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
    2/3 c  Chopped Onion
      2 cl Minced Garlic
      3 c  Water
      1 c  Peeled, Seeded & Chopped
           Tomatoes
      4 md Carrots, Sliced Into 1/2
           Inch Pieces
      4 sm Round Red Potatoes,
           Peeled & Sliced Into
           1/2 in. Pieces
      2 tb Chicken Bouillon Granules
      1 c  Nonfat Buttermilk
      2 tb Lemon Juice
      2 ts Minced Fresh Marjoram
      1 ts Minced Fresh Thyme
    1/8 ts White Pepper
           Fresh Thyme Sprigs (Opt)
  Coat A Large Saucepan With Cooking Spray, Place Over Medium Heat Until Hot.
  Add Onion & Garlic & Saute 3 Min. OR Until Tender.  Add Water, Tomatoes,
  Carrots, Red Potatoes & Chicken Bouillon Granules. Bring To A Boil. Cover,
  Reduce Heat & Simmer 30 Min. OR Until Carrots Are Tender; Set Aside.
  Position Knife Blade in Processor.  Add Half Of Vegetables & Cooking
  Liquid. Process Until Smooth. Place in Large Bowl. Processremaining
  Vegetables & Cooking Liquid.  Add Buttermilk, Lemon Juice, Marjoram, Thyme
  & White Pepper To Vegetable Puree. Stir Well. Cover.Chill 8 Hours. Stir
  Well Before Serving. Garnish With Fresh Thyme If Desired. Serve Chilled.
   (Fat 1.4, Chol. 0.)
      Title: Herbed Zucchini-Pea Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      2 c  Chicken broth
      4 sm Thinly sliced onion
    1/4 c  Minced fresh parsley
    1/4 ts Minced fresh oregano
    1/4 ts Minced fresh chervil
           Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
      4 md Thinly sliced zucchini
      2 c  Shelled fresh green pea
      2 tb Sugar
      2 ts Prepared horseradish
      1 ts Fresh lemon juice
      2 c  Half and half
           Garnish
           Sliced rounds lemon
           Sliced rounds zucchini
  Combine chicken broth, onions, parsley, oregano, chervil and salt and
  pepper to taste in large saucepan and bring to boil. Add zucchini and boil
  until tender, about 5 minutes. Transfer mixture to blender.
  Cook peas in boiling salted water until tender. Drain. Add to blender and
  puree until smooth. Add sugar, horseradish and lemon juice and blend
  thoroughly. Mix in half and half. Cover and refrigerate at least 5 hours.
  Adjust seasoning with salt and pepper. Ladle soup into bowls. Garnish with
  lemon and zucchini rounds.
      Title: Hernekeitto
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
    1/2 lb Dried Whole Green Peas
      2 qt Cold Water
      1 lb Pork Leg
      1 ts Dried Marjoram
      1 pn Dry Mustard
      1 ds Salt
      1 ds Ground Pepper
  This Finnish pea soup can be made well in advance. You can double or triple
  the recipe and freeze it in useful quantities. Malla Karhusaari also
  suggests reducing the cooking time by using a pressure cooker or microwave
  to prepare it. Rinse peas and soak in cold water in large port for 8 hours
  or overnight. Bring peas and soaking water to the boil, reduce to a simmer
  and cook for one hour or until peas begin to soften. Add pork and continue
  to simmer for two to three hours, until peas and meat ar thoroughly cooked.
  When meat is tender, remove it from pot, discard skin and bone, cut meat in
  cubes and return to soup. You may need to add more water to pot for desired
  consistency. Season with marjoram, mustard, salt and pepper. Heat to blend
  flavors and serve hot. Serves 6. From The Gazette, 91/01/30.
      Title: Holiday Pumpkin Soup
 Categories: Soups, Entertain
   Servings:  6
      1    Cube bouillon
      4 lb Fresh pumpkin, peeled,
           -seeded, cooked
      2 c  Water
      2 c  Half & half
      2 tb Molasses
      1 tb Butter
    1/8 ts Ground ginger
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
    1/2 c  Fresh parsley, chopped
  Chopped mint for garnish
  Make broth with bouillon.  Cut pumpkin into 1" cubes and place in broth.
  Simmer for 5 minutes, then puree in blender.  Return puree to heat; add
  half & half and molasses.  Add butter, ginger and nutmeg; simmer for 10
  minutes.  Add parsley; simmer for 10 minutes more.  Serve with fresh
  chopped mint on top.
  Serves 6.
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Homemade Cream Soup Substitute
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  1
      2 c  Instant non fat dry milk
    3/4 c  Cornstarch
    1/4 c  Instant low sodium
           Chicken bouillon
      2 ts Dried onion flakes
      1 ts Basil and thyme opt
      2 ts Pepper
  Combine dry milk, cornstarch, bouillon, onion flakes, basil, thyme and
  pepper. To make the equivalent of one can of soup, use the 1/3 cup of the
  mix and 1 1/2 cup water and cook until thickened. NOTE: Beef bouillon may
  be used in place of the chicken. Mushrooms may be added to the sauce for a
  mushroom soup base.
      Title: Homemade Tomato Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables
   Servings:  6
  2 1/2 c  Peeled and quartered
           -tomatoes
      1 ts Minced or crushed fresh
           -onion
      1 ts Salt
      4 ts Butter or margarine
  2 1/4 ts Sugar
      2 ts Flour
      1 ds Of pepper
  Mix first four ingrediants in large pot, mix flour and sugar and add to
  rest in pot.  Simmer 10 minutes, stirring often.  Cool and freeze. When
  ready to use, bring mix to boil, add 1/2 teaspoon soda (to prevent
  curddling) *then* add 2 cups hot milk.  Stir and serve.
  Posted by Gale Burrows (Sep 20, 1990)
      Title: Homemade Tomato Soup I
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
     17 lb Tomatoes (1 peck)
      1 c  Brown sugar
      2 md Onions
      1 c  All-purpose flour
      2    Hungarian hot peppers
      1 ts Ground allspice
      3 sm Bunches celery
      1 ts Ground cinnamon
      1 lg Bunch fresh parsley
      1 ts Ground cloves
    1/2 c  Coarse salt
    1/4 ts Black pepper
    1/2 c  ( 1 stick) butter
  Core the tomatoes and chop them coarsely.  Chop the onions, peppers,
  celery, and parsley coarsely, and divide equally, along with the tomatoes,
  between 2 very large, deep kettles.  Divide the salt between the 2 kettles,
  too.  Cover, bring to a boil, and simmer over medium-low heat for 1 hour,
  or until all vegetables are very tender.  Stir frequently. Put mixture
  through a sieve or food mill.  Transfer the puree to a large kettle. In a
  medium bowl, combine all remaining ingredients except butter. Add the
  seasonings gradually to the hot puree, beating in with a whisk. Add the
  butter and whisk smooth.  Bring to a boil, then simmer over medium low heat
  for 3 minutes.  Pour hot into 12 hot pint jars, leaving 1/2 inch head
  space.  Seal and process in hot- water bath for 15 min.
  To serve, add one 11 ounce can cream of mushroom soup and 1 soup can of
  water to every pint of tomato soup base.  Heat and serve
  Yield: 6 to 8 servings.
  NOTE:  You can also prepare the soup base by adding 1 1/2 cups milk to it,
  or even using 1 1/2 cups water.
  Posted by Pat Stockett.
      Title: Homemade Tomato Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  8
      1    Peck tomatoes (approx. 17
           -lbs.)
      1 c  Brown sugar
      2 md Onions
      1 c  All-purpose flour
      2    Hungarian hot peppers
      1 ts Ground allspice
      3 sm Bunches celery
      1 ts Ground cinnamon
      1 lg Bunch fresh parsley
      1 ts Ground cloves
    1/2 c  Coarse salt
    1/4 ts Black pepper
    1/2 c  ( 1 stick) butter
  Core the tomatoes and chop them coarsely.  Chop the onions, peppers,
  celery, and parsley coarsely, and divide equally, along with the tomatoes,
  between 2 very large, deep kettles.  Divide the salt between the 2 kettles,
  too.  Cover, bring to a boil, and simmer over medium-low heat for 1 hour,
  or until all vegetables are very tender.  Stir frequently. Put mixture
  through a sieve or food mill.  Transfer the puree to a large kettle. In a
  medium bowl, combine all remaining ingredients except butter. Add the
  seasonings gradually to the hot puree, beating in with a whisk. Add the
  butter and whisk smooth.  Bring to a boil, then simmer over medium low heat
  for 3 minutes.  Pour hot into 12 hot pint jars, leaving 1/2 inch head
  space.  Seal and process in hot- water bath for 15 minutes.
  To serve, add one 11 ounce can cream of mushroom soup and 1 soup can of
  water to every pint of tomato soup base.  Heat and serve
  Yield: 6 to 8 servings.
  NOTE:  You can also prepare the soup base by adding 1 1/2 cups milk to it,
  or even using 1 1/2 cups water.
  Posted by Pat Stockett. Courtesy of Fred Peters.
      Title: Hominy Squash Stew
 Categories: Vegetarian, Soups
   Servings:  4
      1 c  Pinto beans
           - soaked overnight
           Salt
      1 ts Cumin seeds
      1 ts Dried Mexican oregano
      1    Cinnamon stick (1" long)
      3    Whole cloves
    1/4 c  Light olive oil
           -=OR=- sunflower seed oil
      1 lg Onion; cut in 1/4-in squares
      2    Garlic cloves; minced
      1 tb Ground red chile
           -=OR=-
           -Paprika for milder flavor
      2 c  Bean broth or water (about)
      1 lb Fresh or canned tomatoes
           - peeled, seeded & chopped,
           - juice reserved
      3 c  Peeled, cubed banana squash
           - (in 1-inch cubes)
      2 c  Cooked hominy
      2    Jalapeno chiles
           - seeded and finely diced
           Chopped cilantro for garnish
           Sour cream, optional
           -=OR=-
           -Shredded Muenster cheese
  DRAIN SOAKED BEANS, cover them generously with fresh water and bring to
  boil. Boil vigorously about 5 minutes, skim off any foam that rises to
  surface, then lower heat and simmer 30 minutes. Add 1/2 teaspoon salt and
  continue cooking until beans are tender, about another 30 minutes. Taste as
  they cook to be sure they are as done as you like them. Drain beans but
  reserve liquid. Warm small, heavy skillet and toast cumin seeds until
  fragrance emerges. Add oregano, stir about 5 seconds, then quickly remove
  them to plate so they don't burn. Combine with cinnamon stick and cloves
  and grind to a powder in electric spice mill. Heat oil in wide skillet and
  saute onion briskly over high heat 1 minute. Lower heat to medium and add
  garlic, ground spice mixture, ground red chile and salt to taste. Stir to
  combine. Add 1/2 cup reserved bean broth and cook, stirring occasionally,
  until onions soften. Add tomatoes and liquid, squash and enough bean broth
  to cover. Simmer until squash is partially cooked, about 20 minutes. Stir
  in hominy, beans and diced chiles. Add more broth as needed and continue
  cooking until squash is tender. Taste and check seasonings. Serve garnished
  with cilantro and sour cream or shredded cheese.
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
      Title: Hot and Sour Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
    1/2 c  Dried Mushrooms
      1 c  Warm Water
      3 c  Vegetable Stock *
      1 tb Dry Sherry
    1/2 c  Sliced Bamboo Shoots **
      4 oz Tofu, Diced
    1/2 c  Frozen Peas, Thawed
      2 tb White Wine Vinegar
      1 tb Soy Sauce
      2 tb Cornstarch
    1/4 c  Water
    1/2 ts White Pepper  1/2 to 3/4 t
      1 ts Seasame Oil
      1    Egg, Lightly Beaten
      2    Green Onions ***
           Salt To Taste
  * See vegetable stock recipe or use Vegetarian style instant bouillon. For
  each cup of vegetable stock specified in recipe, dissovle 1 t vegetable
  flavored granules or 1 cube vegetable stock base in 1 cup boiling water. **
  Cut in matchstick pieces, or 1/2 cup sliced water chestnuts. *** Cut into
  1-inch diagonal slices, including tops.
  ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Cover mushrooms with water and let stand for 30 minutes.  Remove mushrooms;
  cut off and discard stems.  Thinly slice mushrooms and set aside. Measure
  soaking water (discard any sandy portion at the bottom) and add enough
  stock to make a total of 4 cupcs liquid.  Place in a 2-quart pan and add
  sherry, bamboo shoots, and sliced mushrooms.  Bring to a boil, then reduce
  heat; cover and simmer for 15 minutes.  Add tofu, peas, white vinegar, and
  soy; heat for 3 minutes. In a small bowl, stir together cornstarch and the
  1/4 cup water.  Add to soup and cook, stirring, until slightly thickened.
  Turn off heat.  Add pepper and seasameoil. Stirring continuously, slowly
  pour egg into soup. Sprinkle with onion; add salt to taste. Makes four
  1-1/2 cup servings. Per serving: 6 gram protein, 10 grams carbohydrates, 63
  milligrams cholesterol, 95 calories.
      Title: Hot Guacamole Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      1    Ripe avocado
      2 lg Leaves romaine (or other)
           -lettuce
    1/4 c  Chopped green onions, with
           -tops
      1    Clove garlic, mashed
      2 tb Lime or lemon juice
      1    To 2 Tbsp pure ground chili
      4    Sprigs fresh coriander
           -(cilantro)
      4 c  Chicken stock
  Serves 4
  Cut avocado into quarters, remove pit and peel, and put the flesh in a
  blender or processor.  Tear the romaine leaves into pieces and add to
  blender.  Add remaining ingredients, together with half the stock, and
  puree until smooth.  Combine with remaining stock in a pan and simmer,
  covered, 10 minutes.
  I Hear America Cooking From the collection of Jim Vorheis
      Title: Hot or Cold Leek Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables, Tabasco
   Servings:  6
      1    Leek, (About 8 Ounces) *
      2 tb Olive Oil
      1    Onion, (About 6 Ounces),
           Peeled And Sliced
      6 c  Chicken Stock
  1 1/2 lb Potatoes, Peeled And Cut
           Into 2-Inch Cubes
           Salt To Taste (Depending On
           Saltiness Of Stock)
    1/2 ts Freshly Ground Black Pepper
           Bread Croutons, For Garnish
--------------------------FOR COLD SOUP-------------------------------
  2 1/2 c  Cold Milk
      6 tb Chives, Chopped
    1/4 ts Tabasco Sauce
  Remove the root end and any damaged outer leaves from the leek, but leave
  the remainder of the leaves intact.  Split the leek in half lengthwise, and
  cut it into 1/2-inch pieces.  Clean the leek by immersing the pieces in a
  bowl filled with cold water.  Lift the pieces from the water and place them
  in a sieve to drain.  Heat the oil in a pot. When hot, add the leek and
  sliced onion, and cook over medium heat for about 5 minutes, until they
  soften and begin to brown lightly.  Add the stock, potatoes, salt and
  pepper, and bring to the boil.  Boil for 30 to 40 minutes, until the
  potatoes are tender.  Strain off most of the cooking juices and reserve
  them. Add the solids with a little of the juices to the bowl of a food
  processor, and process briefly, just until pureed.  (If too much liquid is
  added to the processor bowl, the mixture will become too foamy.) Stir the
  puree into the reserved juices.  You should have about 7 cups. The hot soup
  can be served immediately, either plain or with croutons. FOR COLD SOUP:
  Cool the soup and stir in the milk, chives and Tabasco sauce. Serve cold.
  Serves 6. *If you cannot find leeks, add additional onions or scallions;
  the soup will be very good, although it won't have the unique taste that
  leeks give to soup.  If using leeks or scallions, be sure to make use of
  the green as well as the white part of the vegetables, after trimming them
  first, of course, to eliminate any damaged or wilted sections. The green
  leaves lend color as well as taste and texture to the soup. Recipe from
  "Cuisine Economique" by Jacques Pepin. Source: Cuisine Economique - J.
  Pepin
      Title: Hungarian Goulash -- Crockpot
 Categories: Crockpot, Soups
   Servings:  6
      2 lb Round steaks, cut in 1/2"
           -cubes
      1 c  Chopped onion
      1    Clove garlic, minced
      2 tb Flour
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
  1 1/2 ts Paprika
    1/4 ts Dried thyme, crushed
      1    (14 1/2 oz) can tomatoes
      1 c  Sour cream
  Noodles
  Put steak cubes, onion, garlic in crockpot.  Stir in flour and mix to coat
  steak cubes.  Add all remaining ingredients except sour cream. Stir well.
  Cover and cook on Low 8-10 hours  Add sour cream 30 minutes before serving,
  and stir in thoroughly. (High: 4-5 hours, stirring occasionally.) Serve
  over hot buttered noodles.
      Title: Iced Strawberry Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      2 c  Fresh strawberries, washed,
           -hulled and dried
      1 md English cucumber, peeled and
           -cut into chunks
      2 c  Lemon yogurt
    1/2 c  Light rum
      3 tb Chopped fresh mint leaves
      2 tb Sugar
  Mint sprigs Thin lemon slices
  Place strawberries in a food processor fitted with a steel blade;
  puree,pour into a large bowl, set aside.  Place cucumber chunks, yogurt,
  rum,chopped mint leaves, and sugar in food processor; process until
  cucumber is fully pureed; pour into bowl of pureed strawberries, stir to
  mix well; chill in refrigerator.  Serve ice cold, garnished with sprigs of
  mint and lemon slices. Makes 4 cups
  Origin:  Appeal (quarterly publication from Overwaitea Foods) Shared by:
  Sharon Stevens.
      Title: Italian Bean Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings: 16
      1 c  Dried Navy Beans
      2 qt Water
      1 c  Chopped Onion
      1 c  Chopped Green Pepper
      1 c  Chopped Carrots
  1 1/2 ts Dried Basil
      1 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Oregano,
    1/4 ts Dry Mustard
      2 cl Garlic Minched
      3 cn (8 Oz.) Tomato Sauce
    1/2 c  Uncooked Whole Wheat
           Elbow Macaroni
  Sort & Wash Beans; Place in A Dutch Oven. Cover With Water 2 Inches Above
  Beans. Bring To A Boil. Cook Over High Heat 2 Min. Cover & Let Stand 1
  Hour. Drain Beans.
    Add 2 Quarts Water & All Ingredients Except Macaroni.  Cover & & Simmer 1
  1/2 Hours OR Until Beans  Are Tender, Stirring Occasionally. Add Macaroni &
  Cook Uncovered 10 Min. OR Until Macaroni Is Tender.
    (Fat 0.5, Chol. 0.)
      Title: Italian Onion Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      4 md Sweet onions
      4 tb Butter
      4 sl Of bread
           Salt and pepper
      2    (8 ounce) cans beef broth
      1 c  Italian bread crumbs
      4    (4 inch square) slices
           -mozzarella cheese
      1    (1/2 ounce) can Parmesan
           -Cheese (shredded)
      4    Oven tempered soup bowls
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Chop onions to chewable size. Cut 4 slices of
  bread into small crouton size then bake until golden. Set aside. Saute
  onions in butter on low heat until soft and dark brown. Salt and pepper to
  taste.  In a saucepan, heat both cans of beef broth plus 1 can of water and
  cook to slight boil.  Add Italian bread crumbs and onions. Pour broth with
  onions into soup bowls. Add Parmesan cheese and croutons to each bowl, then
  layer each bowl with a slice of mozzarella cheese. Place into oven. Bake
  until cheese is crisp and brown.  Let sit for a few minutes before serving.
  Source: Rock Springs Sweet Onion Festival Cook Book 1992
      Title: Italian Oyster Corn Chowder
 Categories: Soups, Seafood, Vegetables
   Servings:  4
      1 c  Orzo pasta
      3 c  Clear chicken broth
    1/4 c  Minced fresh parsley
    1/2 c  Chopped leeks
    1/4 c  Minced prosciutto
           Salt and white pepper, to
           -taste
  1 1/2 c  Fresh or frozen corn
      2 tb Unsalted butter
  2 1/2 c  Light cream (Optional)
      1 pt Maryland oysters with their
           -liquor
  Cook the orzo according to the directions on the package and set aside.
  Place the chicken broth, parsley, leeks, prosciutto, salt and pepper in a
  large sauce pan.  Simmer until the leeks are tender, or about 2 minutes.
  Add the corn, butter, cream and oysters with their liquor. Simmer for 3 to
  5 minutes longer and add the cooked orzo.  Stir and serve immediately.
  Makes 4 servings.
  Per Serving: 337 calories, 21 gm protein, 38 gm carbohydrates 12 gm fat, 5
  gm saturated fat, 85 mg cholesterol, 733 mg sodium.
  This recipe is from Jack Azud of Easton, MD, who finished first in the
  Soups and Stews category of this fall's National Oyster Cook-Off in
  Leonardtown, MD.  For a copy of the "National Oyster Cook-Off Award-
  Winning Recipes" booklet that contains this recipe and other champions,
  send $3 to National Oyster Cookoff, P.O. Box 653, Leonardtown, MD 20650.
  [The Washington Post; Nov 24, 1991]
  Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Jellied Beet Borscht
 Categories: Soups
   Servings: 12
    3/4 lb Beets
      1 tb Beef Bouillon Granules
  1 1/2 c  Water
      2    Envelopes Unflavored
           Gelatin
      2 tb Lemon Juice
      2 tb Cider Vinegar
  1 1/2 c  Shredded Cabbage
    1/3 c  Chopped Cucumber
    1/4 c  Minced Fresh Dill
      2 tb Finely Chopped Green Onions
      1 tb Prepared Horseradish
  Leave Root & 1 Inch Of Stem On Beets.  Scrub With Vegetable Brush. Place
  Beets in A Saucepan; Cover With Water & Bring To A Boil. Cover, Reduce Heat
  & Simmer 35 To 40 Min. OR Until Tender.  Drain, Reserving 2 C. Liquid.
  Rinse Beets Under Cold Water & Drain Again. Trim Off Beet Roots & Stems, &
  Rub Off Skins; Shred Beets & Set Aside. Combine Beef Granules & Water in A
  Medium Saucepan.  Sprinkle Gelatin Over Bouillon; Let Stand 1 Min. Cook
  Over Lowheat, Stirrng Constantly Until Gelatin Dissolves. Stir in Reserved
  Liquid, Lemon Juice & Vinegar. Chill 1 1/2 Hours OR Until The Consistency
  Of Unbeaten Egg Whites. Combine Reserved Beets, Cabbage, Cucumber,
  Dill,Green Onions & Horseradish in Medium Bowl.  Stir in Gelatin And
  Spooninto A 6 Cup Mold Coated With Cooking Spray.  Chill Until Firm.
      Title: Jellied Beef Broth
 Categories: Soups, 1941
   Servings:  6
    1/2 c  Concentrated meat broth
      2 c  Boiling water
      2 ts Gelatin
    1/2    Bay leaf
      1    Clove
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
           Chopped parsley
           Salt and pepper
      1 tb Cold water
      1 ts Celery salt
  Combine broth, water, bay leaf, clove, celery salt, and Worcestershire
  sauce.  Season to taste.  Simmer 10 minutes. Strain. Add gelatin which has
  been softened in cold water.  Stir until dissolved. Pour into bouillon
  cups.  Chill until firm. Garnish with chopped parsley. 6 servings.
  The Household Searchlight
      Title: Jellied Consomme
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      4 c  Beef broth or 2 tablespoons
           -instant beef bouillon
           Granules dissolved in 4 cups
           -hot water
      1    Sm. onion, chopped (1/4 cup)
    1/2    Med. green pepper, chopped
           -(1/4 cup)
      1 tb Snipped parsley
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
           ......
      2 tb Dry sherry
      2 tb Water
      1    Envelope unflavored gelatin
    1/2 c  Whipping cream (optional)
    1/4 ts Curry powder (optional)
  If using homemade beef broth, be sure that you clarify the broth before
  preparing this recipe.
  In saucepan combine beef broth, onion, green pepper, parsley, and
  worcestershire sauce. Bring to boiling. Reduce heat; simmer uncovered, for
  15 minutes to reduce liquid slightly (it should measure 3 to 3 1/2 cups).
  Strain mixture, discarding vegetables. Return the strained broth to
  saucepan.
  In small bowl combine sherry and water; sprinkle gelatin over liquid and
  let stand to soften gelatin. Stir gelatin mixture into broth; heat and stir
  till gelatin dissolves. Pour into large bowl. Chill till set. Before
  serving, whip cream and curry powder just to stiff peaks. Break up consomme
  with a fork; spoon into serving dishes. Top each serving with a dollop of
  the whipped cream. Makes 4 to 6 servings.
  Recipe from: Better Homes and Gardens, Soups & Stews Cookbook copyright
  1978 by Meredith Corporation, Des Moines, Iowa
      Title: Jellied Fruit Soup
 Categories: Soups, 1941
   Servings:  6
      1 c  Orange juice
      1 c  Pineapple juice
      1 pk Sweetened lemon flavored
           -gelatin
  Heat fruit juices to boiling.  Add gelatin.  Stir until dissolved. Pour
  into a shallow oblong mold.  Chill until firm. Cut in small cubes. Serve in
  bouillon cups with crisp crackers. 6 servings.
  The Household Searchlight
      Title: Jewish Mother's French Beef Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      2 md Onions, peeled and sliced
      2 tb Butter or vegetable oil
      2 lb Beef, in one piece
      1 lb Beef soup bones
      2 lb Chicken wings
     12 c  Beef bouillon
      1    Bouquet garni: 2 bay leaves,
           -4 whole cloves, 4 sprigs
           Fresh parsley, 2 sprigs
           -fresh thyme, 6 whole
           -bruised
           Peppercorns
      3 md Leeks, white part only
      4    Carrots, washed, unpeeled,
           -cut in 1-inch pieces
      4 md Turnips, washed only, cut in
           -quarters
      3 c  Fresh green beans
           Parmesan cheese, freshly
           -grated
           Toasted french bread
  Saute onions in butter.  Add remaining ingredients except green beans,
  cheese and bread.  Simmer for 2 1/2 hours, skimming occasionally. Add green
  beans and simmer for 30 minutes longer.  Remove and discard bouquet garni.
  To serve, place one piece of toasted crusty french bread in each warm bowl
  and pour hot soup over it.  Sprinkle with freshly grated cheese to taste.
  Makes 6 servings.
  [WASHINGTON POST] Posted by Fred Peters.
      Title: Julienne Soup
 Categories: Soups, 1941, Text
   Servings:  6
           Text Only
  Shred carrots, turnips, celery, potato, and onion; or cut in very narrow
  strips.  Cook in boiling salted water until tender. Drain. Add to hot
  bouillon or consomme in the proportion of 2 tablespoons cooked vegetables
  to each cup of bouillon or consomme. Heat thoroughly.
  The Household Searchlight
      Title: Kale and Potato Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetarian, Potatoes, Vegetables
   Servings:  4
      7 c  Water
      1 lg Bunch kale
  1 1/4 lb Red potatoes
           Salt
      2    Bay leaves
      3 tb Virgin olive oil
      1 md Red or yellow onion
           - diced into 1/2-in squares
      6    Garlic cloves; sliced
    1/2 ts Red pepper flakes
           Freshly ground pepper
           Finely chopped parsley
           - for garnish
  HEAT WATER IN LARGE PAN. Meanwhile, with sharp knife, remove stems of
  ruffled kale leaves. Chop stems into 1-inch long pieces and add them to the
  water. Cut leaves into pieces about 2-inch square, wash well and set aside.
  Scrub and peel potatoes and add peels to heating water along with 1/2
  teaspoon salt and 1 bay leaf. When water boils, lower heat and let it
  simmer while you assemble remaining ingredients. Cut peeled potatoes into
  pieces about 1/2-inch square. Heat oil in soup pot, add onion, garlic, red
  pepper flakes and remaining bay leaf. Cook over medium-high heat 3 or 4
  minutes, stirring frequently, then season with salt. Stir in potatoes and 1
  cup strained simmering stock. Cover and cook slowly 5 minutes. Add kale,
  cover again and steam until leaves are wilted, stirring once or twice.
  Strain remaining stock into soup pot. Bring to boil, reduce heat and simmer
  slowly, covered, until potatoes are soft, about 30 minutes. Use back of
  wooden spoon to break up potatoes by pressing them against sides of pot or
  puree 1 or 2 cups soup in blender and return it to pot to make unifying
  background for other elements. Taste soup and season to taste with salt and
  generous grinding of pepper. If possible, set soup aside 1 hour to allow
  flavors to merge and develop even further, then serve with light sprinkling
  of parsley.
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
      Title: Kathie Jenkins Wild Rice Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings: 12
    1/4 c  Butter
      4    Celery stalks, chopped
      2    Carrots peeled and diced
      1 sm Onion, diced
      1 sm Red onion, diced
    1/2 c  Green onions, sliced
    1/3 c  Slivered almonds
      1 tb Dill weed
      2 ts Black pepper
      2 ts Garlic salt
      2    Bay leaves
    1/2 ts Turmeric
      4 qt Chicken stock
  1 1/2 c  Wild rice, well washed
    1/2 c  White rice, well washed
    1/2 ts Salt
      4    Egg yolks
      4 c  Cooked chicken diced
      3 c  Mushrooms, sliced
       Melt butter in skillet over medium heat, add celery, carrots, all
  onions and almonds and saute until slightly tender, stirring occasionally,
  about 5 minutes.  Add dill weed, pepper, garlic salt, bay leaves and
  turmeric.
       In separate large pot, bring chicken stock, wild rice, white rice and
  salt to boil. Reduce heat, add celery mixture, cover and simmer 30 minutes,
  Add more stock if too thick.  Whisk 1 C hot soup into yolks, then whisk
  back into soup.  Add chicken and mushrooms, discard bay leaves, Heat
  gently,  Do not boil.  Serve immediately.
       Each serving contains about 282 calories; 1,444 mg sodium; 111 mg
  cholesterol; 12 grams fat; 28 grams carbohydrates; 16 grams protein; .84
  grams fiber.
      Title: Katie Stapleton's Colorado Cantaloupe Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
           Jim Vorheis
      1    Ripe cantaloupe, peeled,
           -seeded and cut into chunks
    1/2 c  Dry sherry
      2 tb Honey
      1 tb Fresh lime juice
  Put all ingredients into food processor or blender and mix well. Chill
  covered in refrigerator.  Blend again before serving to mix together.
  Colorado Cache Cookbook (1978) From the collection of Jim Vorheis
      Title: Kettle River Gazpacho
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables, Garlic
   Servings:  6
      3    Tomatoes, peeled, seeded and
           -coarsely chopped
    1/2    Green pepper, seeded and
           -diced
      1    Clove garlic, finely chopped
      1 sm Onion, finely sliced
    1/2    English cucumber, peeled and
           -chopped
      4 tb Finely chopped mixed fresh
           -herbs such as chives,
           -parsley,oregano,
           Chervil.
      2 tb Olive oil
     10 tb Chili sauce
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Tomato juice
  Mix all the ingredients together.  Heat gently over medium heat.  Serve
  with hot crusty bread. Can be served chilled or at room temperature.
  Origin: Sun Rype Recipe insert Shared by: Sharon Stevens.
      Title: Kidney Stew
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  4
      1 lb Spanish onions, peeled and
           -cut into eighths
    1/2 c  Red wine
  1 1/4 c  Water
    1/4 ts Dried thyme or 1/2 tsp
           -chopped fresh
           Salt and pepper to taste
     10    Lamb kidneys (about 1 1/2
           -lbs)
      4 tb Flour
  Place the onions, wine and 3/4 cup water in saucepan.  Season with salt,
  pepper and thyme, bring to boil.  Lower heat, cover and simmer 20 minutes
  or until the onions are tender. Remove any surrounding fat and the
  translucent membrane from the outside of the kidneys and cut them into
  about 1" cubes. Stir the kidneys into the onion mixture, cover and simmer
  for 5 minutes or until the kidneys are nearly tender. Blend the four with
  the remaining water until it is smooth and mix it into the kidneys,
  stirring continuously until the mixture thickens. Simmer for a few minutes,
  check seasoning.
  Serves 4
  Kidneys are a part of the body ruled by Libra, and in this dish their taste
  is sweet and mild and lightly flavored with wine and thyme.  Serve this
  stew as a family supper dish with plenty of boiled rice and a red wine.
      Title: King's Arms Tavern Cream of Peanut Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings: 12
      1    Onion, chopped
      2    Celery ribs, chopped
    1/4 c  Butter
      3 tb Flour, all purpose
      2 qt Chicken stock
      2 c  Peanut butter, smooth
  1 3/4 c  Light cream
      1    Peanuts, chopped
  Servings: 12
  Saute onion and celery in butter until soft, but not brown. Stir in flour
  until well blended. Add chick stock, stirring constantly, and bring to a
  boil. Remove from heat and rub through a sieve. Add peanut butter and
  cream, stirring to blend thoroughly. Return to low heat, but do not boil,
  and serve, garnished with peanuts.
  Note: This soup is also good served ice cold.
  This is as served at the King's Arms Tavern in Colonial Williamsburg,
  Virginia.
  "Peanuts (ground nuts) are from Brazil that sailed with the Portuguese
  explorers to Africa and back to the Americas with the Negro. In 1794,
  Thomas Jefferson recorded the yield of sixty-five peanut hills at
  Monticello.  The cultivation of peanuts increased in the South in the
  nineteenth century, but it was not until after the Civil War that they
  gained national acceptance."
  From the Williamsburg Cookbook.
      Title: Lamb Broth
 Categories: Soups, 1941, Text
   Servings:  6
           Text Only
  Wash and remove the membrane from lamb shank.  Clean thoroughly. Cover with
  cold water.  Let stand 2 hours.  Drain.  Add fresh cold water in the
  proportion of 1 quart of water per pound of lamb. Add 1/4 teaspoon salt per
  each quart of water.  Simmer 2 hours. Cool. Skim off fat. Heat broth to
  boiling.  Pour into freshly sterilized jars. Adjust cover. Partially seal.
  Process in hot water bath 1 hour. Remove from water bath. Complete the
  seal.  Label and store in refrigerator until needed.
  The Household Searchlight
      Title: Lamb Stock
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  1
      1    Bone from a 6-lb leg of
           Lamb, cut in half
      3    Stalks celery, cut into
           Small pieces
      2    Carrots, cut into small
           Pieces
      2    Onions, peeled and
           Quartered
      1 lg Ripe tomato OR
      1 c  Canned tomato, cut into
           Small pieces
           Any drippings from roast
           Lamb
      4    Peppercorns
      1    Bay leaf
      1    Parsley
  add enough water to just cover the lamb bone.  Bring to a boil over high
  heat, reduce the heat, and simmer, partially covered, 1 to 2 hours, or
  until the stock is somewhat reduced and flavorful. If it tastes weak,
  simply raise the heat a bit and let it reduce further.
   2.  Drain the stock into a colander set over a large bowl. Remove the
  bones and cut any remaining meat off and set aside. Discard the vegetables
  and bones.  Remove any fat that has floated to the top. The stock can then
  be refrigerated or frozen, or used right away to make a soup.
  Makes about 8 cups.
  From:  LEFTOVERS by Kathy Gunst, Harper Perennial, New York.
      Shared by:  Karin Brewer, Cooking Echo, 2/93
      Title: Lamb, Lentil, and Rosemary Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 tb Butter
      3 cl Garlic, minced
      2    Onions, chopped
      2    Carrots, cut into small
           Cubes
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Pepper
      6 c  Lamb stock
      2 c  Chopped very ripe tomatoes
           Or canned tomatoes
      1    Bay leaf
      1    Bone from a roast leg of
           Lamb
      1 c  Cubed cooked lamb
           Tabasco or other liquid hot
           Pepper sauce
       1.  In a large soup pot, heat the olive oil and butter over moderately
  low heat.  Add the garlic, onions, carrots, half the rosemary, the thyme,
  and salt and pepper to taste.  Simmer, Add the lamb stock, tomatoes,
  lentils, bay leaf, and the lamb bone from the roast if you still have it
  and bring the soup to a boil. Reduce the heat and simmer, partially
  covered, for about 40 to 50 minutes, or until the lentils are tender. Taste
  for seasoning.
     2.  To serve, place a small handful of cooked lamb in the bottom of each
  soup bowl and ladle the hot soup over it.  Garnish with the remaining fresh
  rosemary.  Serve with a bottle of Tabasco on the side.
  Serves 4 to 6.
  From:  LEFTOVERS by Kathy Gunst, Harper Perennial, New York.
        Shared by:  Karin Brewer, Cooking Echo, 2/93
      Title: Late-Summer Soup
 Categories: Soups
   Servings:  6
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 lg Onion; chopped
      3 c  Water
      2    Summer squashes; 12 oz
           -chopped
      2 lg Tomatoes; coarsely chopped
      1    Red pepper; chopped
      1    Yellow pepper; shoped
      1    Zucchini; chopped
      3 lg Cloves garlic; minced
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Fennel seeds
    1/4 ts Freshly ground pepper
-------------------NUTRITIONAL INFORMATION/SERV------------------------
    101 x  Calories
      3 x  G protein
     14 x  G carbohydrate
      5 x  G fat
        x  Mg cholesterol
    545 x  Mg sodium
  1. In Dutch oven, heat oil over medium heat; add onion. saute 5 minutes or
  until sofrtened; add remaining ingredients. Heat to boiling; reduce heat.
  Summer soup 15 minutes or until vegetables are tender.
  2. In food processor, puree 2 1/2 cups soup; pour into soup in pan. Heat.
  From:  McCalls September 1993. Happy Charring
  ~-- EZPoint V2.2 * Origin: "LaRK's" Place (1:343/26.3)
  ===========================================================================
  BBS: High Country East Date: 08-04-93 (17:07) Number: 2396 From: LAWRENCE
  KELLIE              Refer#: NONE To: ALL Recvd: NO Subj: recipe Conf: (52)
  Cooking
      Title: Leek and Artichoke Soup
 Categories: Soups, Vegetables, Vegetarian
   Servings:  6
      1 lg Artichoke; -=OR=-
      2 md -Artichokes
      1 c  Water; acidulated with
           - the juice of
      1    Lemon
      2    Garlic cloves
      1 tb Virgin olive oil
      1 lg Leek; white part only -=OR=-
      2 md Leeks, white part only
           - washed and sliced
      1 sm New potato; quartered
           - and thinly sliced
      6    Leaves butter lettuce
           - sliced into 1/4" strips
           -=OR=- a handful of
           - Sorrel leaves, sliced
      1 tb Chopped parsley
      2    Mint leaves; chopped
           Salt
  5 1/2 c  Water
      1 lb Fresh peas; shucked, -=OR=-
      1 c  -Frozen peas
----------------------------GARNISHES---------------------------------
           Freshly ground pepper
           Chopped chervil
           -=OR=- Chopped Parsley
           Extra-virgin olive oil
           Parmigiano-Reggiano
           - freshly grated
  TRIM THE ARTICHOKES. Break off the tough outer leaves and slice off the top
  2/3 of the remaining inner leaves. Trim the outsides, cut the artichokes in
  quarters and remove the chokes. Dice the trimmed hearts into small pieces.
  Put them in the acidulated water as you work. Keep the garlic cloves whole.
  Warm the olive oil and add the leeks, drained artichokes, garlic, potato,
  lettuce or sorrel, parsley and mint. Season with the salt, add 1/2 cup
  water and stew gently until the vegetables are wilted, about 5 minutes. Add
  the peas and the rest of the water. Bring to a boil, then lower the heat
  and simmer, partially covered, for 20 minutes or until the artichokes are
  cooked. Taste for salt. Puree the soup or leave it as is and serve with the
  freshly ground pepper, add a few good pinches of chervil or parsley, a
  spoonful of olive oil drizzled into each soup plate and a dusting of
  cheese.
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
      Title: Leek and Potato Soup
 Categories: Soups, Potatoes
   Servings:  6
      3 tb Butter
      3 c  Minced leeks
      3 tb Flour
      4 c  To 6 c hot water
      1 ts Salt
           Pepper to taste
      4 c  Potatoes
    1/3    To 1/2 cup heavy cream